first, like a man chiefly accustomed to look inward, and to whom

external matters are of little value and import, unless they bear

relation to something within his mind. Very soon, however, his look

became keen and penetrative. A writhing horror twisted itself across

his features, like a snake gliding swiftly over them, and making one

little pause, with all its wreathed intervolutions in open sight. His

face darkened with some powerful emotion, which, nevertheless, he so

instantaneously controlled by an effort of his will, that, save at a

single moment, its expression might have passed for calmness. After a

brief space, the convulsion grew almost imperceptible, and finally

subsided into the depths of his nature. When he found the eyes of

Hester Prynne fastened on his own, and saw that she appeared to

recognize him, he slowly and calmly raised his finger, made a gesture

with it in the air, and laid it on his lips.

Then, touching the shoulder of a townsman who stood next to him, he

addressed him, in a formal and courteous manner.

“I pray you, good Sir,” said he, “who is this woman?—and wherefore is

she here set up to public shame?”

“You must needs be a stranger in this region, friend,” answered the

townsman, looking curiously at the questioner and his savage

companion, “else you would surely have heard of Mistress Hester

Prynne, and her evil doings. She hath raised a great scandal, I

promise you, in godly Master Dimmesdale’s church.”

“You say truly,” replied the other. “I am a stranger, and have been a

wanderer, sorely against my will. I have met with grievous mishaps by

sea and land, and have been long held in bonds among the heathen-folk,

to the southward; and am now brought hither by this Indian, to be

redeemed out of my captivity. Will it please you, therefore, to tell

me of Hester Prynne’s,—have I her name rightly?—of this woman’s

offences, and what has brought her to yonder scaffold?”

“Truly, friend; and methinks it must gladden your heart, after your

troubles and sojourn in the wilderness,” said the townsman, “to find

yourself, at length, in a land where iniquity is searched out, and

punished in the sight of rulers and people; as here in our godly New

England. Yonder woman, Sir, you must know, was the wife of a certain

learned man, English by birth, but who had long dwelt in Amsterdam,

whence, some good time agone, he was minded to cross over and cast in

his lot with us of the Massachusetts. To this purpose, he sent his

wife before him, remaining himself to look after some necessary

affairs. Marry, good Sir, in some two years, or less, that the woman

has been a dweller here in Boston, no tidings have come of this

learned gentleman, Master Prynne; and his young wife, look you, being

left to her own misguidance—”

“Ah!—aha!—I conceive you,” said the stranger, with a bitter smile.

“So learned a man as you speak of should have learned this too in his

books. And who, by your favor, Sir, may be the father of yonder

babe—it is some three or four months old, I should judge—which

Mistress Prynne is holding in her arms?”

“Of a truth, friend, that matter remaineth a riddle; and the Daniel

who shall expound it is yet a-wanting,” answered the townsman. “Madam

Hester absolutely refuseth to speak, and the magistrates have laid

their heads together in vain. Peradventure the guilty one stands

looking on at this sad spectacle, unknown of man, and forgetting that

God sees him.”

“The learned man,” observed the stranger, with another smile, “should

come himself, to look into the mystery.”

“It behooves him well, if he be still in life,” responded the

townsman. “Now, good Sir, our Massachusetts magistracy, bethinking

themselves that this woman is youthful and fair, and doubtless was

strongly tempted to her fall,—and that, moreover, as is most likely,

her husband may be at the bottom of the sea,—they have not been bold

to put in force the extremity of our righteous law against her. The

penalty thereof is death. But in their great mercy and tenderness of

heart, they have doomed Mistress Prynne to stand only a space of three

hours on the platform of the pillory, and then and thereafter, for the

remainder of her natural life, to wear a mark of shame upon her

bosom.”

“A wise sentence!” remarked the stranger, gravely bowing his head.

“Thus she will be a living sermon against sin, until the ignominious

letter be engraved upon her tombstone. It irks me, nevertheless, that

the partner of her iniquity should not, at least, stand on the

scaffold by her side. But he will be known!—he will be known!—he

will be known!”

He bowed courteously to the communicative townsman, and, whispering a

few words to his Indian attendant, they both made their way through

the crowd.

While this passed, Hester Prynne had been standing on her pedestal,

still with a fixed gaze towards the stranger; so fixed a gaze, that,

at moments of intense absorption, all other objects in the visible