a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate! Do not wish me such an

evil.”

When the dancing recommenced, however, and Darcy approached to claim her

hand, Charlotte could not help cautioning her, in a whisper, not to be a

simpleton, and allow her fancy for Wickham to make her appear unpleasant

in the eyes of a man often times his consequence. Elizabeth made no

answer, and took her place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which

she was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Mr. Darcy, and

reading in her neighbours’ looks their equal amazement in beholding it.

They stood for some time without speaking a word; and she began to

imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances, and, at

first, was resolved not to break it; till suddenly fancying that it

would be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige him to talk,

she made some slight observation on the dance. He replied, and was again

silent. After a pause of some minutes, she addressed him a second time,

with--

“It is _your_ turn to say something now, Mr. Darcy. _I_ talked about the

dance, and _you_ ought to make some kind of remark on the size of the

room, or the number of couples.”

He smiled, and assured her that whatever she wished him to say should be

said.

“Very well; that reply will do for the present. Perhaps, by-and-by, I

may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones; but

_now_ we may be silent.”

“Do you talk by rule, then, while you are dancing?”

“Sometimes. One must speak a little, you know. It would look odd to be

entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet, for the advantage of

_some_, conversation ought to be so arranged as that they may have the

trouble of saying as little as possible.”

“Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you

imagine that you are gratifying mine?”

“Both,” replied Elizabeth archly; “for I have always seen a great

similarity in the turn of our minds. We are each of an unsocial,

taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say

something that will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to

posterity with all the _éclat_ of a proverb.”

“This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am sure,”

said he. “How near it may be to _mine_, I cannot pretend to say. _You_

think it a faithful portrait, undoubtedly.”

“I must not decide on my own performance.”

He made no answer; and they were again silent till they had gone down

the dance, when he asked her if she and her sisters did not very often

walk to Meryton. She answered in the affirmative; and, unable to resist

the temptation, added, “When you met us there the other day, we had just

been forming a new acquaintance.”

The effect was immediate. A deeper shade of _hauteur_ overspread his

features, but he said not a word; and Elizabeth, though blaming herself

for her own weakness, could not go on. At length Darcy spoke, and in a

constrained manner said,--

“Mr. Wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may insure his

_making_ friends; whether he may be equally capable of _retaining_ them,

is less certain.”

“He has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship,” replied Elizabeth,

with emphasis, “and in a manner which he is likely to suffer from all

his life.”

Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject. At

that moment Sir William Lucas appeared close to them, meaning to pass

through the set to the other side of the room; but, on perceiving Mr.

Darcy, he stopped, with a bow of superior courtesy, to compliment him on

his dancing and his partner.

“I have been most highly gratified, indeed, my dear sir; such very

superior dancing is not often seen. It is evident that you belong to the

first circles. Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not

disgrace you: and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated,

especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Miss Eliza (glancing

at her sister and Bingley), shall take place. What congratulations will

then flow in! I appeal to Mr. Darcy;--but let me not interrupt you, sir.

You will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of

that young lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me.”

[Illustration:

“Such very superior dancing is not

often seen.”

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by Darcy; but Sir

William’s allusion to his friend seemed to strike him forcibly, and his

eyes were directed, with a very serious expression, towards Bingley and

Jane, who were dancing together. Recovering himself, however, shortly,

he turned to his partner, and said,--