Tom?" asked the man.

"Of course I will, Eradicate," was the young inventor's answer.

"Case we ain't got many laik her no mo', an' dat's de truf, Massa Tom,"

went on the old man. "So be mighty careful laik!"

"That's what I will, Rad! And, while I'm up in the air, don't you and

Koku have any trouble."

"Ho! Trouble wif dat onery no-'count giant! I guess not!" and the

colored man limped off, highly indignant.

Satisfied, from an inspection of his machine, that it was as nearly

mechanically perfect as it was possible to be, Tom Swift finished his

trip around it and stood near the big propeller, waiting for Mary

Nestor to reappear. Presently she did so, and Tom gaily waved his hand

to her.

"You're a picture!" he cried, as he saw how particularly "fetching" she

looked in the aviator's costume which was like his own. Because of the

danger of entanglement, Miss Nestor had doffed her skirts, and wore the

costume of all aviators--men and women.

"I wish I had my camera!" cried Tom. "You look--stunning!"

"I hope that isn't any comment on how I'm going to feel if we have to

make a--forced landing, I believe you call it," she retorted.

"Oh, I'll take care of that!" exclaimed Tom. "Now up you go, and we'll

start," and he helped her to climb into the padded seat of the cockpit,

behind where he was to sit.

"Oh, Tom! Don't be in such a hurry!" expostulated Mary. "Let me get my

breath!"

"No!" laughed the young inventor. "If I did you might back out. Get

in, fasten the strap around you and sit still. That's all you have to

do. Don't be afraid, I'll be very careful. And don't try to yell at me

to go slower or lower once we're up in the air.

"Why not?" Mary wanted to know, as she settled herself in her seat.

"Because I can't very well hear you, or talk to you. The motor makes so

much noise, you know. We can do a little talking through this speaking

tube," and he indicated one, "but it isn't very satisfactory. So if you

have anything to say--"

"In the language of the poets," interrupted Mary, "if I have words to

spill, prepare to spill them now. Well, I haven't! Now I'm here, go

ahead! I shall probably be too frightened to talk, anyhow."

"Oh, no you won't--after the first little sensation," Tom assured her.

"You'll be crazy about it. Come on, Jackson!" he called to the

mechanician. "Start the ball rolling!"

Tom was in his place, his goggles and cap well down over his face, and

he was adjusting the switch as the mechanic prepared to spin the

propellers.

Suddenly a man came running from the Swift house, waving his arms not

unlike the blades of an aircraft propeller, he also shouted, but Tom,

whose ears were covered with his fur cap, could not hear. However,

Jackson did, and stopped whirling the blades, turning about to see what

was wanted.

"Why, it's Mr. Damon!" exclaimed Tom, as he caught sight of the excited

man. "Hello, what's the matter?" the youth asked, pulling aside one

flap of his head-covering so he might hear the answer.

"Tom! Wait a minute! Bless my mouse trap!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "I want

to speak to you!" He was panting from his run across the field. "I just

got to your house--saw your father--he said you were going up with Miss

Nestor, but--bless my dog biscuit--"