“This must be the beginning of the end,” he said, interrupting me. “The

end! The great and terrible day of the Lord! When men shall call upon

the mountains and the rocks to fall upon them and hide them—hide them

from the face of Him that sitteth upon the throne!”

I began to understand the position. I ceased my laboured reasoning,

struggled to my feet, and, standing over him, laid my hand on his

shoulder.

“Be a man!” said I. “You are scared out of your wits! What good is

religion if it collapses under calamity? Think of what earthquakes and

floods, wars and volcanoes, have done before to men! Did you think God

had exempted Weybridge? He is not an insurance agent.”

For a time he sat in blank silence.

“But how can we escape?” he asked, suddenly. “They are invulnerable,

they are pitiless.”

“Neither the one nor, perhaps, the other,” I answered. “And the

mightier they are the more sane and wary should we be. One of them was

killed yonder not three hours ago.”

“Killed!” he said, staring about him. “How can God’s ministers be

killed?”

“I saw it happen.” I proceeded to tell him. “We have chanced to come in

for the thick of it,” said I, “and that is all.”

“What is that flicker in the sky?” he asked abruptly.

I told him it was the heliograph signalling—that it was the sign of

human help and effort in the sky.

“We are in the midst of it,” I said, “quiet as it is. That flicker in

the sky tells of the gathering storm. Yonder, I take it are the

Martians, and Londonward, where those hills rise about Richmond and

Kingston and the trees give cover, earthworks are being thrown up and

guns are being placed. Presently the Martians will be coming this way

again.”

And even as I spoke he sprang to his feet and stopped me by a gesture.

“Listen!” he said.

From beyond the low hills across the water came the dull resonance of

distant guns and a remote weird crying. Then everything was still. A

cockchafer came droning over the hedge and past us. High in the west

the crescent moon hung faint and pale above the smoke of Weybridge and

Shepperton and the hot, still splendour of the sunset.

“We had better follow this path,” I said, “northward.”

XIV.

IN LONDON.

My younger brother was in London when the Martians fell at Woking. He

was a medical student working for an imminent examination, and he heard

nothing of the arrival until Saturday morning. The morning papers on

Saturday contained, in addition to lengthy special articles on the

planet Mars, on life in the planets, and so forth, a brief and vaguely

worded telegram, all the more striking for its brevity.

The Martians, alarmed by the approach of a crowd, had killed a number

of people with a quick-firing gun, so the story ran. The telegram

concluded with the words: “Formidable as they seem to be, the Martians

have not moved from the pit into which they have fallen, and, indeed,

seem incapable of doing so. Probably this is due to the relative

strength of the earth’s gravitational energy.” On that last text their

leader-writer expanded very comfortingly.

Of course all the students in the crammer’s biology class, to which my

brother went that day, were intensely interested, but there were no

signs of any unusual excitement in the streets. The afternoon papers

puffed scraps of news under big headlines. They had nothing to tell

beyond the movements of troops about the common, and the burning of the

pine woods between Woking and Weybridge, until eight. Then the _St.

James’s Gazette_, in an extra-special edition, announced the bare fact

of the interruption of telegraphic communication. This was thought to

be due to the falling of burning pine trees across the line. Nothing

more of the fighting was known that night, the night of my drive to

Leatherhead and back.

My brother felt no anxiety about us, as he knew from the description in

the papers that the cylinder was a good two miles from my house. He

made up his mind to run down that night to me, in order, as he says, to

see the Things before they were killed. He dispatched a telegram, which