curate, or of sumptuous dinners; but, asleep or awake, I felt a keen

pain that urged me to drink again and again. The light that came into

the scullery was no longer grey, but red. To my disordered imagination

it seemed the colour of blood.

On the fourteenth day I went into the kitchen, and I was surprised to

find that the fronds of the red weed had grown right across the hole in

the wall, turning the half-light of the place into a crimson-coloured

obscurity.

It was early on the fifteenth day that I heard a curious, familiar

sequence of sounds in the kitchen, and, listening, identified it as the

snuffing and scratching of a dog. Going into the kitchen, I saw a dog’s

nose peering in through a break among the ruddy fronds. This greatly

surprised me. At the scent of me he barked shortly.

I thought if I could induce him to come into the place quietly I should

be able, perhaps, to kill and eat him; and in any case, it would be

advisable to kill him, lest his actions attracted the attention of the

Martians.

I crept forward, saying “Good dog!” very softly; but he suddenly

withdrew his head and disappeared.

I listened—I was not deaf—but certainly the pit was still. I heard a

sound like the flutter of a bird’s wings, and a hoarse croaking, but

that was all.

For a long while I lay close to the peephole, but not daring to move

aside the red plants that obscured it. Once or twice I heard a faint

pitter-patter like the feet of the dog going hither and thither on the

sand far below me, and there were more birdlike sounds, but that was

all. At length, encouraged by the silence, I looked out.

Except in the corner, where a multitude of crows hopped and fought over

the skeletons of the dead the Martians had consumed, there was not a

living thing in the pit.

I stared about me, scarcely believing my eyes. All the machinery had

gone. Save for the big mound of greyish-blue powder in one corner,

certain bars of aluminium in another, the black birds, and the

skeletons of the killed, the place was merely an empty circular pit in

the sand.

Slowly I thrust myself out through the red weed, and stood upon the

mound of rubble. I could see in any direction save behind me, to the

north, and neither Martians nor sign of Martians were to be seen. The

pit dropped sheerly from my feet, but a little way along the rubbish

afforded a practicable slope to the summit of the ruins. My chance of

escape had come. I began to tremble.

I hesitated for some time, and then, in a gust of desperate resolution,

and with a heart that throbbed violently, I scrambled to the top of the

mound in which I had been buried so long.

I looked about again. To the northward, too, no Martian was visible.

When I had last seen this part of Sheen in the daylight it had been a

straggling street of comfortable white and red houses, interspersed

with abundant shady trees. Now I stood on a mound of smashed brickwork,

clay, and gravel, over which spread a multitude of red cactus-shaped

plants, knee-high, without a solitary terrestrial growth to dispute

their footing. The trees near me were dead and brown, but further a

network of red thread scaled the still living stems.

The neighbouring houses had all been wrecked, but none had been burned;

their walls stood, sometimes to the second story, with smashed windows

and shattered doors. The red weed grew tumultuously in their roofless

rooms. Below me was the great pit, with the crows struggling for its

refuse. A number of other birds hopped about among the ruins. Far away

I saw a gaunt cat slink crouchingly along a wall, but traces of men

there were none.

The day seemed, by contrast with my recent confinement, dazzlingly

bright, the sky a glowing blue. A gentle breeze kept the red weed that

covered every scrap of unoccupied ground gently swaying. And oh! the

sweetness of the air!

VI.

THE WORK OF FIFTEEN DAYS.

For some time I stood tottering on the mound regardless of my safety.

Within that noisome den from which I had emerged I had thought with a

narrow intensity only of our immediate security. I had not realised

what had been happening to the world, had not anticipated this

startling vision of unfamiliar things. I had expected to see Sheen in

ruins—I found about me the landscape, weird and lurid, of another

planet.

For that moment I touched an emotion beyond the common range of men,