your success and get it away from you," warned Mr. Damon, as Tom guided

the Air Scout along the aerial way--an unlighted and limitless path in

the silent darkness.

"Oh, they'll have to get up pretty early in the morning to do that!"

boasted Tom, and afterward he was to recall those words with a bit of

chagrin.

On and on they sailed, and as Tom increased the speed of the motor, and

noted how silently it ran, he began to have high hopes that he had

builded better than he knew. For even with the motor running at almost

full speed there was not noise enough to hinder talk between himself

and Mr. Damon.

Of course there was some little sound. Even the most perfect electric

motor has a sort of hum which can be detected when one is close to it.

But at a little distance a great dynamo in operation appears to be

silence itself.

"I can go this one better, though," said Tom as he sailed along in the

night. "I see where I've made a few mistakes in the baffle plate of the

silencer. I'll correct that and--"

As he spoke the machine gave a lurch, and the motor, instead of

remaining silent, began to cough and splutter as in the former days.

"Bless my rubber boots, Tom! what's the matter?" cried Mr. Damon.

"Something's gone wrong," Tom answered, barely able to hear and make

himself heard above the sudden noise. "I'll have to shut off the power

and glide down. We can make a landing in this big field," for just then

the moon came out from behind a cloud, and Tom saw, below them, a great

meadow, not far from the home of Mary Nestor. He had often landed in

this same place.

"Something has broken in the muffler, I think, letting out some of the

exhaust," he said to Mr. Damon, for, now that the motor was shut off,

Tom could speak in his ordinary tones. "I'll soon have it fixed, or, if

I can't, we can go back in the old style--with the machine making as

much racket as it pleases."

So Tom guided the machine down. It went silently now, of course,

making, with the motor shut off, no more sound than a falling leaf.

Down to the soft, springy turf in the green meadow Tom guided the

machine. As it came to a stop, and he and Mr. Damon got out, there was

borne to their ears a wild cry:

"Help! Help!"

CHAPTER XIII

SOMETHING QUEER

"Did you hear that?" asked Tom Swift of his companion.

"Hear it? Bless my ear drums, I should say I did hear it! Some one is

in trouble, Tom. Caught in a bog, most likely, the same as that spy

chap who was at your place. That's it--caught in a bog!"

"There isn't any bog or swamp around here, Mr. Damon. If there was I

shouldn't have tried a landing. No, it's something else besides that.

Hark!"

Again the cry sounded, seeming to come from a point behind the landing

place of the silent airship. It was clear and distinct:

"Help! Help! They are--"

The voice seemed to die away in a gurgle, as though the person's mouth

had been covered quickly.

"He's sinking, Tom! He's sinking!" cried Mr. Damon. "I once heard a man

who almost drowned cry out, and it sounded exactly like that!"

"But there isn't any water around here for any one to drown in,"

declared Tom. "It's a big, dry meadow. I know where we are."

"Then what is it?"

"I don't know, but we're going to find out. Some one attacked by some

one else--or something, I should say," ventured the young inventor.

"Something! do you mean a wild beast, Tom?"

"No, for there aren't any of those here any more than there is water.

Though it may be that some farmer's bull or a savage dog has got loose

and has attacked some traveler. But, in that case I think we would hear

bellows or barks, and all I heard was a cry for help."

"The same with me, Tom. Let's investigate;"