could see it under the heavy moustache, was fixed and rather

cruel-looking, with peculiarly sharp white teeth; these protruded over

the lips, whose remarkable ruddiness showed astonishing vitality in a

man of his years. For the rest, his ears were pale, and at the tops

extremely pointed; the chin was broad and strong, and the cheeks firm

though thin. The general effect was one of extraordinary pallor.

Hitherto I had noticed the backs of his hands as they lay on his knees

in the firelight, and they had seemed rather white and fine; but seeing

them now close to me, I could not but notice that they were rather

coarse--broad, with squat fingers. Strange to say, there were hairs in

the centre of the palm. The nails were long and fine, and cut to a sharp

point. As the Count leaned over me and his hands touched me, I could not

repress a shudder. It may have been that his breath was rank, but a

horrible feeling of nausea came over me, which, do what I would, I could

not conceal. The Count, evidently noticing it, drew back; and with a

grim sort of smile, which showed more than he had yet done his

protuberant teeth, sat himself down again on his own side of the

fireplace. We were both silent for a while; and as I looked towards the

window I saw the first dim streak of the coming dawn. There seemed a

strange stillness over everything; but as I listened I heard as if from

down below in the valley the howling of many wolves. The Count’s eyes

gleamed, and he said:--

“Listen to them--the children of the night. What music they make!”

Seeing, I suppose, some expression in my face strange to him, he

added:--

“Ah, sir, you dwellers in the city cannot enter into the feelings of the

hunter.” Then he rose and said:--

“But you must be tired. Your bedroom is all ready, and to-morrow you

shall sleep as late as you will. I have to be away till the afternoon;

so sleep well and dream well!” With a courteous bow, he opened for me

himself the door to the octagonal room, and I entered my bedroom....

I am all in a sea of wonders. I doubt; I fear; I think strange things,

which I dare not confess to my own soul. God keep me, if only for the

sake of those dear to me!

 * * * * *

_7 May._--It is again early morning, but I have rested and enjoyed the

last twenty-four hours. I slept till late in the day, and awoke of my

own accord. When I had dressed myself I went into the room where we had

supped, and found a cold breakfast laid out, with coffee kept hot by the

pot being placed on the hearth. There was a card on the table, on which

was written:--

“I have to be absent for a while. Do not wait for me.--D.” I set to and

enjoyed a hearty meal. When I had done, I looked for a bell, so that I

might let the servants know I had finished; but I could not find one.

There are certainly odd deficiencies in the house, considering the

extraordinary evidences of wealth which are round me. The table service

is of gold, and so beautifully wrought that it must be of immense value.

The curtains and upholstery of the chairs and sofas and the hangings of

my bed are of the costliest and most beautiful fabrics, and must have

been of fabulous value when they were made, for they are centuries old,

though in excellent order. I saw something like them in Hampton Court,

but there they were worn and frayed and moth-eaten. But still in none of

the rooms is there a mirror. There is not even a toilet glass on my

table, and I had to get the little shaving glass from my bag before I

could either shave or brush my hair. I have not yet seen a servant

anywhere, or heard a sound near the castle except the howling of wolves.

Some time after I had finished my meal--I do not know whether to call it

breakfast or dinner, for it was between five and six o’clock when I had

it--I looked about for something to read, for I did not like to go about

the castle until I had asked the Count’s permission. There was

absolutely nothing in the room, book, newspaper, or even writing

materials; so I opened another door in the room and found a sort of

library. The door opposite mine I tried, but found it locked.

In the library I found, to my great delight, a vast number of English

books, whole shelves full of them, and bound volumes of magazines and

newspapers. A table in the centre was littered with English magazines

and newspapers, though none of them were of very recent date. The books

were of the most varied kind--history, geography, politics, political

economy, botany, geology, law--all relating to England and English life