Since arme from arme that voyce doth vs affray,

Hunting thee hence, with Hunts-vp to the day,

O now be gone, more light and it light growes

 Rom. More light & light, more darke & darke our woes.

Enter Madam and Nurse.

 Nur. Madam

 Iul. Nurse

 Nur. Your Lady Mother is comming to your chamber,

The day is broke, be wary, looke about

 Iul. Then window let day in, and let life out

 Rom. Farewell, farewell, one kisse and Ile descend

 Iul. Art thou gone so? Loue, Lord, ay Husband, Friend,

I must heare from thee euery day in the houre,

For in a minute there are many dayes,

O by this count I shall be much in yeares,

Ere I againe behold my Romeo

 Rom. Farewell:

I will omit no oportunitie,

That may conuey my greetings Loue, to thee

 Iul. O thinkest thou we shall euer meet againe?

 Rom. I doubt it not, and all these woes shall serue

For sweet discourses in our time to come

 Iuliet. O God! I haue an ill Diuining soule,

Me thinkes I see thee now, thou art so lowe,

As one dead in the bottome of a Tombe,

Either my eye-sight failes, or thou look'st pale

 Rom. And trust me Loue, in my eye so do you:

Drie sorrow drinkes our blood. Adue, adue.

Enter.

 Iul. O Fortune, Fortune, all men call thee fickle,

If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him

That is renown'd for faith? be fickle Fortune:

For then I hope thou wilt not keepe him long,

But send him backe.

Enter Mother.

 Lad. Ho Daughter, are you vp?

 Iul. Who ist that calls? Is it my Lady Mother.

Is she not downe so late, or vp so early?

What vnaccustom'd cause procures her hither?

 Lad. Why how now Iuliet?

 Iul. Madam I am not well

 Lad. Euermore weeping for your Cozins death?

What wilt thou wash him from his graue with teares?

And if thou could'st, thou could'st not make him liue:

Therefore haue done, some griefe shewes much of Loue,

But much of griefe, shewes still some want of wit

 Iul. Yet let me weepe, for such a feeling losse

 Lad. So shall you feele the losse, but not the Friend

Which you weepe for

 Iul. Feeling so the losse,

I cannot chuse but euer weepe the Friend

 La. Well Girle, thou weep'st not so much for his death,

As that the Villaine liues which slaughter'd him

 Iul. What Villaine, Madam?

 Lad. That same Villaine Romeo

 Iul. Villaine and he, be many miles assunder:

God pardon, I doe with all my heart:

And yet no man like he, doth grieue my heart

 Lad. That is because the Traitor liues

 Iul. I Madam from the reach of these my hands:

Would none but I might venge my Cozins death

 Lad. We will haue vengeance for it, feare thou not.

Then weepe no more, Ile send to one in Mantua,

Where that same banisht Run-agate doth liue,

Shall giue him such an vnaccustom'd dram,

That he shall soone keepe Tybalt company: