herself and slammed the door shut again from outside. But she seemed to

regret her behaviour, as she opened the door again straight away and

came in on tip-toe as if entering the room of someone seriously ill or

even of a stranger. Gregor had pushed his head forward, right to the

edge of the couch, and watched her. Would she notice that he had left

the milk as it was, realise that it was not from any lack of hunger and

bring him in some other food that was more suitable? If she didn’t do

it herself he would rather go hungry than draw her attention to it,

although he did feel a terrible urge to rush forward from under the

couch, throw himself at his sister’s feet and beg her for something

good to eat. However, his sister noticed the full dish immediately and

looked at it and the few drops of milk splashed around it with some

surprise. She immediately picked it up—using a rag, not her bare

hands—and carried it out. Gregor was extremely curious as to what she

would bring in its place, imagining the wildest possibilities, but he

never could have guessed what his sister, in her goodness, actually did

bring. In order to test his taste, she brought him a whole selection of

things, all spread out on an old newspaper. There were old, half-rotten

vegetables; bones from the evening meal, covered in white sauce that

had gone hard; a few raisins and almonds; some cheese that Gregor had

declared inedible two days before; a dry roll and some bread spread

with butter and salt. As well as all that she had poured some water

into the dish, which had probably been permanently set aside for

Gregor’s use, and placed it beside them. Then, out of consideration for

Gregor’s feelings, as she knew that he would not eat in front of her,

she hurried out again and even turned the key in the lock so that

Gregor would know he could make things as comfortable for himself as he

liked. Gregor’s little legs whirred, at last he could eat. What’s more,

his injuries must already have completely healed as he found no

difficulty in moving. This amazed him, as more than a month earlier he

had cut his finger slightly with a knife, he thought of how his finger

had still hurt the day before yesterday. “Am I less sensitive than I

used to be, then?”, he thought, and was already sucking greedily at the

cheese which had immediately, almost compellingly, attracted him much

more than the other foods on the newspaper. Quickly one after another,

his eyes watering with pleasure, he consumed the cheese, the vegetables

and the sauce; the fresh foods, on the other hand, he didn’t like at

all, and even dragged the things he did want to eat a little way away

from them because he couldn’t stand the smell. Long after he had

finished eating and lay lethargic in the same place, his sister slowly

turned the key in the lock as a sign to him that he should withdraw. He

was immediately startled, although he had been half asleep, and he

hurried back under the couch. But he needed great self-control to stay

there even for the short time that his sister was in the room, as

eating so much food had rounded out his body a little and he could

hardly breathe in that narrow space. Half suffocating, he watched with

bulging eyes as his sister unselfconsciously took a broom and swept up

the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he had not even touched at

all as if it could not be used any more. She quickly dropped it all

into a bin, closed it with its wooden lid, and carried everything out.

She had hardly turned her back before Gregor came out again from under

the couch and stretched himself.

This was how Gregor received his food each day now, once in the morning

while his parents and the maid were still asleep, and the second time

after everyone had eaten their meal at midday as his parents would

sleep for a little while then as well, and Gregor’s sister would send

the maid away on some errand. Gregor’s father and mother certainly did

not want him to starve either, but perhaps it would have been more than

they could stand to have any more experience of his feeding than being

told about it, and perhaps his sister wanted to spare them what

distress she could as they were indeed suffering enough.

It was impossible for Gregor to find out what they had told the doctor

and the locksmith that first morning to get them out of the flat. As

nobody could understand him, nobody, not even his sister, thought that

he could understand them, so he had to be content to hear his sister’s

sighs and appeals to the saints as she moved about his room. It was

only later, when she had become a little more used to everything—there

was, of course, no question of her ever becoming fully used to the

situation—that Gregor would sometimes catch a friendly comment, or at

least a comment that could be construed as friendly. “He’s enjoyed his

dinner today”, she might say when he had diligently cleared away all

the food left for him, or if he left most of it, which slowly became

more and more frequent, she would often say, sadly, “now everything’s

just been left there again”.