story to tell of being lured away by the “bloofer lady.”

CHAPTER XIV

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL

_23 September_.--Jonathan is better after a bad night. I am so glad that

he has plenty of work to do, for that keeps his mind off the terrible

things; and oh, I am rejoiced that he is not now weighed down with the

responsibility of his new position. I knew he would be true to himself,

and now how proud I am to see my Jonathan rising to the height of his

advancement and keeping pace in all ways with the duties that come upon

him. He will be away all day till late, for he said he could not lunch

at home. My household work is done, so I shall take his foreign journal,

and lock myself up in my room and read it....

_24 September_.--I hadn’t the heart to write last night; that terrible

record of Jonathan’s upset me so. Poor dear! How he must have suffered,

whether it be true or only imagination. I wonder if there is any truth

in it at all. Did he get his brain fever, and then write all those

terrible things, or had he some cause for it all? I suppose I shall

never know, for I dare not open the subject to him.... And yet that man

we saw yesterday! He seemed quite certain of him.... Poor fellow! I

suppose it was the funeral upset him and sent his mind back on some

train of thought.... He believes it all himself. I remember how on our

wedding-day he said: “Unless some solemn duty come upon me to go back to

the bitter hours, asleep or awake, mad or sane.” There seems to be

through it all some thread of continuity.... That fearful Count was

coming to London.... If it should be, and he came to London, with his

teeming millions.... There may be a solemn duty; and if it come we must

not shrink from it.... I shall be prepared. I shall get my typewriter

this very hour and begin transcribing. Then we shall be ready for other

eyes if required. And if it be wanted; then, perhaps, if I am ready,

poor Jonathan may not be upset, for I can speak for him and never let

him be troubled or worried with it at all. If ever Jonathan quite gets

over the nervousness he may want to tell me of it all, and I can ask him

questions and find out things, and see how I may comfort him.

_Letter, Van Helsing to Mrs. Harker._

“_24 September._

(_Confidence_)

“Dear Madam,--

“I pray you to pardon my writing, in that I am so far friend as that I

sent to you sad news of Miss Lucy Westenra’s death. By the kindness of

Lord Godalming, I am empowered to read her letters and papers, for I am

deeply concerned about certain matters vitally important. In them I find

some letters from you, which show how great friends you were and how you

love her. Oh, Madam Mina, by that love, I implore you, help me. It is

for others’ good that I ask--to redress great wrong, and to lift much

and terrible troubles--that may be more great than you can know. May it

be that I see you? You can trust me. I am friend of Dr. John Seward and

of Lord Godalming (that was Arthur of Miss Lucy). I must keep it private

for the present from all. I should come to Exeter to see you at once if

you tell me I am privilege to come, and where and when. I implore your

pardon, madam. I have read your letters to poor Lucy, and know how good

you are and how your husband suffer; so I pray you, if it may be,

enlighten him not, lest it may harm. Again your pardon, and forgive me.

“VAN HELSING.”

_Telegram, Mrs. Harker to Van Helsing._

“_25 September._--Come to-day by quarter-past ten train if you can catch

it. Can see you any time you call.

“WILHELMINA HARKER.”

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL.

_25 September._--I cannot help feeling terribly excited as the time

draws near for the visit of Dr. Van Helsing, for somehow I expect that

it will throw some light upon Jonathan’s sad experience; and as he

attended poor dear Lucy in her last illness, he can tell me all about

her. That is the reason of his coming; it is concerning Lucy and her

sleep-walking, and not about Jonathan. Then I shall never know the real