was shown by his torn-open dress. The attitude of the two had a terrible

resemblance to a child forcing a kitten’s nose into a saucer of milk to

compel it to drink. As we burst into the room, the Count turned his

face, and the hellish look that I had heard described seemed to leap

into it. His eyes flamed red with devilish passion; the great nostrils

of the white aquiline nose opened wide and quivered at the edge; and the

white sharp teeth, behind the full lips of the blood-dripping mouth,

champed together like those of a wild beast. With a wrench, which threw

his victim back upon the bed as though hurled from a height, he turned

and sprang at us. But by this time the Professor had gained his feet,

and was holding towards him the envelope which contained the Sacred

Wafer. The Count suddenly stopped, just as poor Lucy had done outside

the tomb, and cowered back. Further and further back he cowered, as we,

lifting our crucifixes, advanced. The moonlight suddenly failed, as a

great black cloud sailed across the sky; and when the gaslight sprang up

under Quincey’s match, we saw nothing but a faint vapour. This, as we

looked, trailed under the door, which with the recoil from its bursting

open, had swung back to its old position. Van Helsing, Art, and I moved

forward to Mrs. Harker, who by this time had drawn her breath and with

it had given a scream so wild, so ear-piercing, so despairing that it

seems to me now that it will ring in my ears till my dying day. For a

few seconds she lay in her helpless attitude and disarray. Her face was

ghastly, with a pallor which was accentuated by the blood which smeared

her lips and cheeks and chin; from her throat trickled a thin stream of

blood; her eyes were mad with terror. Then she put before her face her

poor crushed hands, which bore on their whiteness the red mark of the

Count’s terrible grip, and from behind them came a low desolate wail

which made the terrible scream seem only the quick expression of an

endless grief. Van Helsing stepped forward and drew the coverlet gently

over her body, whilst Art, after looking at her face for an instant

despairingly, ran out of the room. Van Helsing whispered to me:--

“Jonathan is in a stupor such as we know the Vampire can produce. We can

do nothing with poor Madam Mina for a few moments till she recovers

herself; I must wake him!” He dipped the end of a towel in cold water

and with it began to flick him on the face, his wife all the while

holding her face between her hands and sobbing in a way that was

heart-breaking to hear. I raised the blind, and looked out of the

window. There was much moonshine; and as I looked I could see Quincey

Morris run across the lawn and hide himself in the shadow of a great

yew-tree. It puzzled me to think why he was doing this; but at the

instant I heard Harker’s quick exclamation as he woke to partial

consciousness, and turned to the bed. On his face, as there might well

be, was a look of wild amazement. He seemed dazed for a few seconds, and

then full consciousness seemed to burst upon him all at once, and he

started up. His wife was aroused by the quick movement, and turned to

him with her arms stretched out, as though to embrace him; instantly,

however, she drew them in again, and putting her elbows together, held

her hands before her face, and shuddered till the bed beneath her shook.

“In God’s name what does this mean?” Harker cried out. “Dr. Seward, Dr.

Van Helsing, what is it? What has happened? What is wrong? Mina, dear,

what is it? What does that blood mean? My God, my God! has it come to

this!” and, raising himself to his knees, he beat his hands wildly

together. “Good God help us! help her! oh, help her!” With a quick

movement he jumped from bed, and began to pull on his clothes,--all the

man in him awake at the need for instant exertion. “What has happened?

Tell me all about it!” he cried without pausing. “Dr. Van Helsing, you

love Mina, I know. Oh, do something to save her. It cannot have gone too

far yet. Guard her while I look for _him_!” His wife, through her terror

and horror and distress, saw some sure danger to him: instantly

forgetting her own grief, she seized hold of him and cried out:--