“You know that Mrs. Westenra left you all her property?”

“No, poor dear; I never thought of it.”

“And as it is all yours, you have a right to deal with it as you will. I

want you to give me permission to read all Miss Lucy’s papers and

letters. Believe me, it is no idle curiosity. I have a motive of which,

be sure, she would have approved. I have them all here. I took them

before we knew that all was yours, so that no strange hand might touch

them--no strange eye look through words into her soul. I shall keep

them, if I may; even you may not see them yet, but I shall keep them

safe. No word shall be lost; and in the good time I shall give them back

to you. It’s a hard thing I ask, but you will do it, will you not, for

Lucy’s sake?”

Arthur spoke out heartily, like his old self:--

“Dr. Van Helsing, you may do what you will. I feel that in saying this I

am doing what my dear one would have approved. I shall not trouble you

with questions till the time comes.”

The old Professor stood up as he said solemnly:--

“And you are right. There will be pain for us all; but it will not be

all pain, nor will this pain be the last. We and you too--you most of

all, my dear boy--will have to pass through the bitter water before we

reach the sweet. But we must be brave of heart and unselfish, and do our

duty, and all will be well!”

I slept on a sofa in Arthur’s room that night. Van Helsing did not go to

bed at all. He went to and fro, as if patrolling the house, and was

never out of sight of the room where Lucy lay in her coffin, strewn with

the wild garlic flowers, which sent, through the odour of lily and rose,

a heavy, overpowering smell into the night.

_Mina Harker’s Journal._

_22 September._--In the train to Exeter. Jonathan sleeping.

It seems only yesterday that the last entry was made, and yet how much

between then, in Whitby and all the world before me, Jonathan away and

no news of him; and now, married to Jonathan, Jonathan a solicitor, a

partner, rich, master of his business, Mr. Hawkins dead and buried, and

Jonathan with another attack that may harm him. Some day he may ask me

about it. Down it all goes. I am rusty in my shorthand--see what

unexpected prosperity does for us--so it may be as well to freshen it up

again with an exercise anyhow....

The service was very simple and very solemn. There were only ourselves

and the servants there, one or two old friends of his from Exeter, his

London agent, and a gentleman representing Sir John Paxton, the

President of the Incorporated Law Society. Jonathan and I stood hand in

hand, and we felt that our best and dearest friend was gone from us....

We came back to town quietly, taking a ’bus to Hyde Park Corner.

Jonathan thought it would interest me to go into the Row for a while, so

we sat down; but there were very few people there, and it was

sad-looking and desolate to see so many empty chairs. It made us think

of the empty chair at home; so we got up and walked down Piccadilly.

Jonathan was holding me by the arm, the way he used to in old days

before I went to school. I felt it very improper, for you can’t go on

for some years teaching etiquette and decorum to other girls without the

pedantry of it biting into yourself a bit; but it was Jonathan, and he

was my husband, and we didn’t know anybody who saw us--and we didn’t

care if they did--so on we walked. I was looking at a very beautiful

girl, in a big cart-wheel hat, sitting in a victoria outside Guiliano’s,

when I felt Jonathan clutch my arm so tight that he hurt me, and he said

under his breath: “My God!” I am always anxious about Jonathan, for I

fear that some nervous fit may upset him again; so I turned to him

quickly, and asked him what it was that disturbed him.

He was very pale, and his eyes seemed bulging out as, half in terror and

half in amazement, he gazed at a tall, thin man, with a beaky nose and

black moustache and pointed beard, who was also observing the pretty

girl. He was looking at her so hard that he did not see either of us,

and so I had a good view of him. His face was not a good face; it was

hard, and cruel, and sensual, and his big white teeth, that looked all

the whiter because his lips were so red, were pointed like an animal’s.

Jonathan kept staring at him, till I was afraid he would notice. I

feared he might take it ill, he looked so fierce and nasty. I asked

Jonathan why he was disturbed, and he answered, evidently thinking that

I knew as much about it as he did: “Do you see who it is?”

“No, dear,” I said; “I don’t know him; who is it?” His answer seemed to