down the towing path, licking off the people who ran this way and that,

and came down to the water’s edge not fifty yards from where I stood.

It swept across the river to Shepperton, and the water in its track

rose in a boiling weal crested with steam. I turned shoreward.

In another moment the huge wave, well-nigh at the boiling-point had

rushed upon me. I screamed aloud, and scalded, half blinded, agonised,

I staggered through the leaping, hissing water towards the shore. Had

my foot stumbled, it would have been the end. I fell helplessly, in

full sight of the Martians, upon the broad, bare gravelly spit that

runs down to mark the angle of the Wey and Thames. I expected nothing

but death.

I have a dim memory of the foot of a Martian coming down within a score

of yards of my head, driving straight into the loose gravel, whirling

it this way and that and lifting again; of a long suspense, and then of

the four carrying the debris of their comrade between them, now clear

and then presently faint through a veil of smoke, receding

interminably, as it seemed to me, across a vast space of river and

meadow. And then, very slowly, I realised that by a miracle I had

escaped.

XIII.

HOW I FELL IN WITH THE CURATE.

After getting this sudden lesson in the power of terrestrial weapons,

the Martians retreated to their original position upon Horsell Common;

and in their haste, and encumbered with the debris of their smashed

companion, they no doubt overlooked many such a stray and negligible

victim as myself. Had they left their comrade and pushed on forthwith,

there was nothing at that time between them and London but batteries of

twelve-pounder guns, and they would certainly have reached the capital

in advance of the tidings of their approach; as sudden, dreadful, and

destructive their advent would have been as the earthquake that

destroyed Lisbon a century ago.

But they were in no hurry. Cylinder followed cylinder on its

interplanetary flight; every twenty-four hours brought them

reinforcement. And meanwhile the military and naval authorities, now

fully alive to the tremendous power of their antagonists, worked with

furious energy. Every minute a fresh gun came into position until,

before twilight, every copse, every row of suburban villas on the hilly

slopes about Kingston and Richmond, masked an expectant black muzzle.

And through the charred and desolated area—perhaps twenty square miles

altogether—that encircled the Martian encampment on Horsell Common,

through charred and ruined villages among the green trees, through the

blackened and smoking arcades that had been but a day ago pine

spinneys, crawled the devoted scouts with the heliographs that were

presently to warn the gunners of the Martian approach. But the Martians

now understood our command of artillery and the danger of human

proximity, and not a man ventured within a mile of either cylinder,

save at the price of his life.

It would seem that these giants spent the earlier part of the afternoon

in going to and fro, transferring everything from the second and third

cylinders—the second in Addlestone Golf Links and the third at

Pyrford—to their original pit on Horsell Common. Over that, above the

blackened heather and ruined buildings that stretched far and wide,

stood one as sentinel, while the rest abandoned their vast

fighting-machines and descended into the pit. They were hard at work

there far into the night, and the towering pillar of dense green smoke

that rose therefrom could be seen from the hills about Merrow, and

even, it is said, from Banstead and Epsom Downs.

And while the Martians behind me were thus preparing for their next

sally, and in front of me Humanity gathered for the battle, I made my

way with infinite pains and labour from the fire and smoke of burning

Weybridge towards London.

I saw an abandoned boat, very small and remote, drifting down-stream;

and throwing off the most of my sodden clothes, I went after it, gained

it, and so escaped out of that destruction. There were no oars in the

boat, but I contrived to paddle, as well as my parboiled hands would

allow, down the river towards Halliford and Walton, going very

tediously and continually looking behind me, as you may well

understand. I followed the river, because I considered that the water

gave me my best chance of escape should these giants return.

The hot water from the Martian’s overthrow drifted downstream with me,

so that for the best part of a mile I could see little of either bank.

Once, however, I made out a string of black figures hurrying across the

meadows from the direction of Weybridge. Halliford, it seemed, was

deserted, and several of the houses facing the river were on fire. It

was strange to see the place quite tranquil, quite desolate under the

hot blue sky, with the smoke and little threads of flame going straight

up into the heat of the afternoon. Never before had I seen houses

burning without the accompaniment of an obstructive crowd. A little

farther on the dry reeds up the bank were smoking and glowing, and a

line of fire inland was marching steadily across a late field of hay.