came laboured as I toiled up the endless steps to the abbey. I must have

gone fast, and yet it seemed to me as if my feet were weighted with

lead, and as though every joint in my body were rusty. When I got almost

to the top I could see the seat and the white figure, for I was now

close enough to distinguish it even through the spells of shadow. There

was undoubtedly something, long and black, bending over the

half-reclining white figure. I called in fright, “Lucy! Lucy!” and

something raised a head, and from where I was I could see a white face

and red, gleaming eyes. Lucy did not answer, and I ran on to the

entrance of the churchyard. As I entered, the church was between me and

the seat, and for a minute or so I lost sight of her. When I came in

view again the cloud had passed, and the moonlight struck so brilliantly

that I could see Lucy half reclining with her head lying over the back

of the seat. She was quite alone, and there was not a sign of any living

thing about.

When I bent over her I could see that she was still asleep. Her lips

were parted, and she was breathing--not softly as usual with her, but in

long, heavy gasps, as though striving to get her lungs full at every

breath. As I came close, she put up her hand in her sleep and pulled the

collar of her nightdress close around her throat. Whilst she did so

there came a little shudder through her, as though she felt the cold. I

flung the warm shawl over her, and drew the edges tight round her neck,

for I dreaded lest she should get some deadly chill from the night air,

unclad as she was. I feared to wake her all at once, so, in order to

have my hands free that I might help her, I fastened the shawl at her

throat with a big safety-pin; but I must have been clumsy in my anxiety

and pinched or pricked her with it, for by-and-by, when her breathing

became quieter, she put her hand to her throat again and moaned. When I

had her carefully wrapped up I put my shoes on her feet and then began

very gently to wake her. At first she did not respond; but gradually she

became more and more uneasy in her sleep, moaning and sighing

occasionally. At last, as time was passing fast, and, for many other

reasons, I wished to get her home at once, I shook her more forcibly,

till finally she opened her eyes and awoke. She did not seem surprised

to see me, as, of course, she did not realise all at once where she was.

Lucy always wakes prettily, and even at such a time, when her body must

have been chilled with cold, and her mind somewhat appalled at waking

unclad in a churchyard at night, she did not lose her grace. She

trembled a little, and clung to me; when I told her to come at once with

me home she rose without a word, with the obedience of a child. As we

passed along, the gravel hurt my feet, and Lucy noticed me wince. She

stopped and wanted to insist upon my taking my shoes; but I would not.

However, when we got to the pathway outside the churchyard, where there

was a puddle of water, remaining from the storm, I daubed my feet with

mud, using each foot in turn on the other, so that as we went home, no

one, in case we should meet any one, should notice my bare feet.

Fortune favoured us, and we got home without meeting a soul. Once we saw

a man, who seemed not quite sober, passing along a street in front of

us; but we hid in a door till he had disappeared up an opening such as

there are here, steep little closes, or “wynds,” as they call them in

Scotland. My heart beat so loud all the time that sometimes I thought I

should faint. I was filled with anxiety about Lucy, not only for her

health, lest she should suffer from the exposure, but for her reputation

in case the story should get wind. When we got in, and had washed our

feet, and had said a prayer of thankfulness together, I tucked her into

bed. Before falling asleep she asked--even implored--me not to say a

word to any one, even her mother, about her sleep-walking adventure. I

hesitated at first to promise; but on thinking of the state of her

mother’s health, and how the knowledge of such a thing would fret her,

and thinking, too, of how such a story might become distorted--nay,

infallibly would--in case it should leak out, I thought it wiser to do

so. I hope I did right. I have locked the door, and the key is tied to

my wrist, so perhaps I shall not be again disturbed. Lucy is sleeping

soundly; the reflex of the dawn is high and far over the sea....

 * * * * *

_Same day, noon._--All goes well. Lucy slept till I woke her and seemed

not to have even changed her side. The adventure of the night does not