gladly have availed themselves, to add the richer and more spiritual

adornment of human ingenuity to their fabrics of silk and gold. Here,

indeed, in the sable simplicity that generally characterized the

Puritanic modes of dress, there might be an infrequent call for the

finer productions of her handiwork. Yet the taste of the age,

demanding whatever was elaborate in compositions of this kind, did not

fail to extend its influence over our stern progenitors, who had cast

behind them so many fashions which it might seem harder to dispense

with. Public ceremonies, such as ordinations, the installation of

magistrates, and all that could give majesty to the forms in which a

new government manifested itself to the people, were, as a matter of

policy, marked by a stately and well-conducted ceremonial, and a

sombre, but yet a studied magnificence. Deep ruffs, painfully wrought

bands, and gorgeously embroidered gloves, were all deemed necessary to

the official state of men assuming the reins of power; and were

readily allowed to individuals dignified by rank or wealth, even while

sumptuary laws forbade these and similar extravagances to the plebeian

order. In the array of funerals, too,—whether for the apparel of the

dead body, or to typify, by manifold emblematic devices of sable cloth

and snowy lawn, the sorrow of the survivors,—there was a frequent and

characteristic demand for such labor as Hester Prynne could supply.

Baby-linen—for babies then wore robes of state—afforded still

another possibility of toil and emolument.

By degrees, nor very slowly, her handiwork became what would now be

termed the fashion. Whether from commiseration for a woman of so

miserable a destiny; or from the morbid curiosity that gives a

fictitious value even to common or worthless things; or by whatever

other intangible circumstance was then, as now, sufficient to bestow,

on some persons, what others might seek in vain; or because Hester

really filled a gap which must otherwise have remained vacant; it is

certain that she had ready and fairly requited employment for as many

hours as she saw fit to occupy with her needle. Vanity, it may be,

chose to mortify itself, by putting on, for ceremonials of pomp and

state, the garments that had been wrought by her sinful hands. Her

needlework was seen on the ruff of the Governor; military men wore it

on their scarfs, and the minister on his band; it decked the baby’s

little cap; it was shut up, to be mildewed and moulder away, in the

coffins of the dead. But it is not recorded that, in a single

instance, her skill was called in aid to embroider the white veil

which was to cover the pure blushes of a bride. The exception

indicated the ever-relentless rigor with which society frowned upon

her sin.

Hester sought not to acquire anything beyond a subsistence, of the

plainest and most ascetic description, for herself, and a simple

abundance for her child. Her own dress was of the coarsest materials

and the most sombre hue; with only that one ornament,—the scarlet

letter,—which it was her doom to wear. The child’s attire, on the

other hand, was distinguished by a fanciful, or, we might rather say,

a fantastic ingenuity, which served, indeed, to heighten the airy

charm that early began to develop itself in the little girl, but which

appeared to have also a deeper meaning. We may speak further of it

hereafter. Except for that small expenditure in the decoration of her

infant, Hester bestowed all her superfluous means in charity, on

wretches less miserable than herself, and who not unfrequently

insulted the hand that fed them. Much of the time, which she might

readily have applied to the better efforts of her art, she employed in

making coarse garments for the poor. It is probable that there was an

idea of penance in this mode of occupation, and that she offered up a

real sacrifice of enjoyment, in devoting so many hours to such rude

handiwork. She had in her nature a rich, voluptuous, Oriental

characteristic,—a taste for the gorgeously beautiful, which, save in

the exquisite productions of her needle, found nothing else, in all

the possibilities of her life, to exercise itself upon. Women derive

a pleasure, incomprehensible to the other sex, from the delicate toil

of the needle. To Hester Prynne it might have been a mode of

expressing, and therefore soothing, the passion of her life. Like all

other joys, she rejected it as sin. This morbid meddling of conscience

with an immaterial matter betokened, it is to be feared, no genuine

and steadfast penitence, but something doubtful, something that might

be deeply wrong, beneath.

In this manner, Hester Prynne came to have a part to perform in the

world. With her native energy of character, and rare capacity, it

could not entirely cast her off, although it had set a mark upon her,

more intolerable to a woman’s heart than that which branded the brow

of Cain. In all her intercourse with society, however, there was