“She will not speak!” murmured Mr. Dimmesdale, who, leaning over the

balcony, with his hand upon his heart, had awaited the result of his

appeal. He now drew back, with a long respiration. “Wondrous strength

and generosity of a woman’s heart! She will not speak!”

[Illustration: “She was led back to Prison”]

Discerning the impracticable state of the poor culprit’s mind, the

elder clergyman, who had carefully prepared himself for the occasion,

addressed to the multitude a discourse on sin, in all its branches,

but with continual reference to the ignominious letter. So forcibly

did he dwell upon this symbol, for the hour or more during which his

periods were rolling over the people’s heads, that it assumed new

terrors in their imagination, and seemed to derive its scarlet hue

from the flames of the infernal pit. Hester Prynne, meanwhile, kept

her place upon the pedestal of shame, with glazed eyes, and an air of

weary indifference. She had borne, that morning, all that nature could

endure; and as her temperament was not of the order that escapes from

too intense suffering by a swoon, her spirit could only shelter itself

beneath a stony crust of insensibility, while the faculties of animal

life remained entire. In this state, the voice of the preacher

thundered remorselessly, but unavailingly, upon her ears. The infant,

during the latter portion of her ordeal, pierced the air with its

wailings and screams; she strove to hush it, mechanically, but seemed

scarcely to sympathize with its trouble. With the same hard demeanor,

she was led back to prison, and vanished from the public gaze within

its iron-clamped portal. It was whispered, by those who peered after

her, that the scarlet letter threw a lurid gleam along the dark

passage-way of the interior.

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 IV.

 THE INTERVIEW.

After her return to the prison, Hester Prynne was found to be in a

state of nervous excitement that demanded constant watchfulness, lest

she should perpetrate violence on herself, or do some half-frenzied

mischief to the poor babe. As night approached, it proving impossible

to quell her insubordination by rebuke or threats of punishment,

Master Brackett, the jailer, thought fit to introduce a physician. He

described him as a man of skill in all Christian modes of physical

science, and likewise familiar with whatever the savage people could

teach, in respect to medicinal herbs and roots that grew in the

forest. To say the truth, there was much need of professional

assistance, not merely for Hester herself, but still more urgently for

the child; who, drawing its sustenance from the maternal bosom, seemed

to have drank in with it all the turmoil, the anguish and despair,

which pervaded the mother’s system. It now writhed in convulsions of

pain, and was a forcible type, in its little frame, of the moral agony

which Hester Prynne had borne throughout the day.

Closely following the jailer into the dismal apartment appeared that

individual, of singular aspect, whose presence in the crowd had been

of such deep interest to the wearer of the scarlet letter. He was

lodged in the prison, not as suspected of any offence, but as the most

convenient and suitable mode of disposing of him, until the

magistrates should have conferred with the Indian sagamores respecting

his ransom. His name was announced as Roger Chillingworth. The jailer,

after ushering him into the room, remained a moment, marvelling at the

comparative quiet that followed his entrance; for Hester Prynne had

immediately become as still as death, although the child continued to

moan.

“Prithee, friend, leave me alone with my patient,” said the

practitioner. “Trust me, good jailer, you shall briefly have peace in

your house; and, I promise you, Mistress Prynne shall hereafter be

more amenable to just authority than you may have found her

heretofore.”

“Nay, if your worship can accomplish that,” answered Master Brackett,

“I shall own you for a man of skill indeed! Verily, the woman hath

been like a possessed one; and there lacks little, that I should take

in hand to drive Satan out of her with stripes.”

The stranger had entered the room with the characteristic quietude of

the profession to which he announced himself as belonging. Nor did his

demeanor change, when the withdrawal of the prison-keeper left him

face to face with the woman, whose absorbed notice of him, in the

crowd, had intimated so close a relation between himself and her. His

first care was given to the child; whose cries, indeed, as she lay

writhing on the trundle-bed, made it of peremptory necessity to

postpone all other business to the task of soothing her. He examined

the infant carefully, and then proceeded to unclasp a leathern case,