"All right," agreed Jackson. "That suits me. Might as well leave our

togs here, too. It will be easier walking without them," and he began

taking off the fur-lined suit, his cap, and his goggles, such as he and

Tom wore against the piercing cold of the upper regions.

"We can stuff them in the cockpit and leave them," went on the

mechanician, as he divested himself of his garments. As he stowed them

away in his seat he gave one more look at the broken muffler. As Tom

Swift said, his new silencer had literally blown up, a large piece

having been torn from the gas chamber.

Something that Jackson saw caused him to utter an exclamation that

brought Tom Swift to his side.

"What is it?" asked the young inventor.

"Look!" was the answer. "See! Just at the edge of that break! It's

been filed to make the metal thinner there than anywhere else. You

didn't do that, did you?"

"I should say not!" cried Tom. "Why, to file there would mean to weaken

the whole structure."

"And that's exactly what's happened!" declared Jackson, as he gave

another look. "Some one has filed this nearly through--leaving only a

thin metal skin, and when the gas pressure became too much it blew out.

That's what happened!"

Tom Swift made a quick but thorough examination.

"You're right, Jackson!" he exclaimed. "That was filed deliberately to

cause the accident. And it must have been done lately, for I carefully

inspected the silencer when I put it on, and it was in perfect order.

There's been spy work here. Some one got into the hangar and filed that

casing. Then the accumulated pressure of the gases did the rest."

"As sure as you're alive!" agreed Jackson. "Maybe that's what Gale did

when he called."

"No," returned Tom, shaking his head, "he didn't get a chance to do

anything like that. I watched him all the while. But perhaps this is

what he referred to when he said he and his company would repudiate any

act of that spy with the gold tooth--Lydane, so Gale said his name was.

Maybe that's what Lydane did."

"He was capable of it," agreed the mechanic, "but he couldn't have done

it that time you tripped him into the mud puddle. This silencer wasn't

built then."

"No, you're right," assented Tom. "Then he must have been around since,

doing some of his tricky work!"

"I don't see how that could have been," said Jackson slowly. "We've

kept a very careful watch, and your shop has been specially guarded."

"I know it has," said Tom. "There couldn't much get past Koku; but some

one seems to have done it, or else how could that filing have been

done?"

Jackson shook his head. The problem was too much for him. He looked

carefully at the exploded and broken silencer, and Tom, too, gave it a

critical eye. There was no doubt but that it had been filed in several

places to weaken the structure of the metal.

"When did you last see that it was in perfect condition?" asked Jackson.

Tom named a certain date.

"That was just before Gale called," observed the mechanician. "He

might have known of it."

"I wish I'd known of it at the time," said Tom savagely. "He wouldn't

have gotten away as easily as he did. Well, there's no use standing

here talking about it. Let's get back to civilization and we'll send

back one of the trucks. Luckily I have another silencer I can put on

for the government test. This one will never be of any more use, though

I may be able to save some of the valves and baffle plates."

Slowly they turned from the disabled aeroplane and started to look for

a path that would lead them out of the lonely place. Tom as the first