pointed crags, till these were themselves lost in the distance, where

the snowy peaks rose grandly. Here and there seemed mighty rifts in the

mountains, through which, as the sun began to sink, we saw now and again

the white gleam of falling water. One of my companions touched my arm as

we swept round the base of a hill and opened up the lofty, snow-covered

peak of a mountain, which seemed, as we wound on our serpentine way, to

be right before us:--

“Look! Isten szek!”--“God’s seat!”--and he crossed himself reverently.

As we wound on our endless way, and the sun sank lower and lower behind

us, the shadows of the evening began to creep round us. This was

emphasised by the fact that the snowy mountain-top still held the

sunset, and seemed to glow out with a delicate cool pink. Here and there

we passed Cszeks and Slovaks, all in picturesque attire, but I noticed

that goitre was painfully prevalent. By the roadside were many crosses,

and as we swept by, my companions all crossed themselves. Here and there

was a peasant man or woman kneeling before a shrine, who did not even

turn round as we approached, but seemed in the self-surrender of

devotion to have neither eyes nor ears for the outer world. There were

many things new to me: for instance, hay-ricks in the trees, and here

and there very beautiful masses of weeping birch, their white stems

shining like silver through the delicate green of the leaves. Now and

again we passed a leiter-wagon--the ordinary peasant’s cart--with its

long, snake-like vertebra, calculated to suit the inequalities of the

road. On this were sure to be seated quite a group of home-coming

peasants, the Cszeks with their white, and the Slovaks with their

coloured, sheepskins, the latter carrying lance-fashion their long

staves, with axe at end. As the evening fell it began to get very cold,

and the growing twilight seemed to merge into one dark mistiness the

gloom of the trees, oak, beech, and pine, though in the valleys which

ran deep between the spurs of the hills, as we ascended through the

Pass, the dark firs stood out here and there against the background of

late-lying snow. Sometimes, as the road was cut through the pine woods

that seemed in the darkness to be closing down upon us, great masses of

greyness, which here and there bestrewed the trees, produced a

peculiarly weird and solemn effect, which carried on the thoughts and

grim fancies engendered earlier in the evening, when the falling sunset

threw into strange relief the ghost-like clouds which amongst the

Carpathians seem to wind ceaselessly through the valleys. Sometimes the

hills were so steep that, despite our driver’s haste, the horses could

only go slowly. I wished to get down and walk up them, as we do at home,

but the driver would not hear of it. “No, no,” he said; “you must not

walk here; the dogs are too fierce”; and then he added, with what he

evidently meant for grim pleasantry--for he looked round to catch the

approving smile of the rest--“and you may have enough of such matters

before you go to sleep.” The only stop he would make was a moment’s

pause to light his lamps.

When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement amongst the

passengers, and they kept speaking to him, one after the other, as

though urging him to further speed. He lashed the horses unmercifully

with his long whip, and with wild cries of encouragement urged them on

to further exertions. Then through the darkness I could see a sort of

patch of grey light ahead of us, as though there were a cleft in the

hills. The excitement of the passengers grew greater; the crazy coach

rocked on its great leather springs, and swayed like a boat tossed on a

stormy sea. I had to hold on. The road grew more level, and we appeared

to fly along. Then the mountains seemed to come nearer to us on each

side and to frown down upon us; we were entering on the Borgo Pass. One

by one several of the passengers offered me gifts, which they pressed

upon me with an earnestness which would take no denial; these were

certainly of an odd and varied kind, but each was given in simple good

faith, with a kindly word, and a blessing, and that strange mixture of

fear-meaning movements which I had seen outside the hotel at

Bistritz--the sign of the cross and the guard against the evil eye.

Then, as we flew along, the driver leaned forward, and on each side the

passengers, craning over the edge of the coach, peered eagerly into the

darkness. It was evident that something very exciting was either

happening or expected, but though I asked each passenger, no one would

give me the slightest explanation. This state of excitement kept on for

some little time; and at last we saw before us the Pass opening out on

the eastern side. There were dark, rolling clouds overhead, and in the

air the heavy, oppressive sense of thunder. It seemed as though the

mountain range had separated two atmospheres, and that now we had got