pantry. He made me no answer, but so soon as I began eating the faint

noise I made stirred him up and I heard him crawling after me.

II.

WHAT WE SAW FROM THE RUINED HOUSE.

After eating we crept back to the scullery, and there I must have dozed

again, for when presently I looked round I was alone. The thudding

vibration continued with wearisome persistence. I whispered for the

curate several times, and at last felt my way to the door of the

kitchen. It was still daylight, and I perceived him across the room,

lying against the triangular hole that looked out upon the Martians.

His shoulders were hunched, so that his head was hidden from me.

I could hear a number of noises almost like those in an engine shed;

and the place rocked with that beating thud. Through the aperture in

the wall I could see the top of a tree touched with gold and the warm

blue of a tranquil evening sky. For a minute or so I remained watching

the curate, and then I advanced, crouching and stepping with extreme

care amid the broken crockery that littered the floor.

I touched the curate’s leg, and he started so violently that a mass of

plaster went sliding down outside and fell with a loud impact. I

gripped his arm, fearing he might cry out, and for a long time we

crouched motionless. Then I turned to see how much of our rampart

remained. The detachment of the plaster had left a vertical slit open

in the debris, and by raising myself cautiously across a beam I was

able to see out of this gap into what had been overnight a quiet

suburban roadway. Vast, indeed, was the change that we beheld.

The fifth cylinder must have fallen right into the midst of the house

we had first visited. The building had vanished, completely smashed,

pulverised, and dispersed by the blow. The cylinder lay now far beneath

the original foundations—deep in a hole, already vastly larger than the

pit I had looked into at Woking. The earth all round it had splashed

under that tremendous impact—“splashed” is the only word—and lay in

heaped piles that hid the masses of the adjacent houses. It had behaved

exactly like mud under the violent blow of a hammer. Our house had

collapsed backward; the front portion, even on the ground floor, had

been destroyed completely; by a chance the kitchen and scullery had

escaped, and stood buried now under soil and ruins, closed in by tons

of earth on every side save towards the cylinder. Over that aspect we

hung now on the very edge of the great circular pit the Martians were

engaged in making. The heavy beating sound was evidently just behind

us, and ever and again a bright green vapour drove up like a veil

across our peephole.

The cylinder was already opened in the centre of the pit, and on the

farther edge of the pit, amid the smashed and gravel-heaped shrubbery,

one of the great fighting-machines, deserted by its occupant, stood

stiff and tall against the evening sky. At first I scarcely noticed the

pit and the cylinder, although it has been convenient to describe them

first, on account of the extraordinary glittering mechanism I saw busy

in the excavation, and on account of the strange creatures that were

crawling slowly and painfully across the heaped mould near it.

The mechanism it certainly was that held my attention first. It was one

of those complicated fabrics that have since been called

handling-machines, and the study of which has already given such an

enormous impetus to terrestrial invention. As it dawned upon me first,

it presented a sort of metallic spider with five jointed, agile legs,

and with an extraordinary number of jointed levers, bars, and reaching

and clutching tentacles about its body. Most of its arms were

retracted, but with three long tentacles it was fishing out a number of

rods, plates, and bars which lined the covering and apparently

strengthened the walls of the cylinder. These, as it extracted them,

were lifted out and deposited upon a level surface of earth behind it.

Its motion was so swift, complex, and perfect that at first I did not

see it as a machine, in spite of its metallic glitter. The

fighting-machines were coordinated and animated to an extraordinary

pitch, but nothing to compare with this. People who have never seen

these structures, and have only the ill-imagined efforts of artists or

the imperfect descriptions of such eye-witnesses as myself to go upon,

scarcely realise that living quality.

I recall particularly the illustration of one of the first pamphlets to

give a consecutive account of the war. The artist had evidently made a

hasty study of one of the fighting-machines, and there his knowledge

ended. He presented them as tilted, stiff tripods, without either

flexibility or subtlety, and with an altogether misleading monotony of