know he will be miserable to see me so.

_Letter, Arthur Holmwood to Dr. Seward._

“_Albemarle Hotel, 31 August._

“My dear Jack,--

“I want you to do me a favour. Lucy is ill; that is, she has no special

disease, but she looks awful, and is getting worse every day. I have

asked her if there is any cause; I do not dare to ask her mother, for to

disturb the poor lady’s mind about her daughter in her present state of

health would be fatal. Mrs. Westenra has confided to me that her doom is

spoken--disease of the heart--though poor Lucy does not know it yet. I

am sure that there is something preying on my dear girl’s mind. I am

almost distracted when I think of her; to look at her gives me a pang. I

told her I should ask you to see her, and though she demurred at

first--I know why, old fellow--she finally consented. It will be a

painful task for you, I know, old friend, but it is for _her_ sake, and

I must not hesitate to ask, or you to act. You are to come to lunch at

Hillingham to-morrow, two o’clock, so as not to arouse any suspicion in

Mrs. Westenra, and after lunch Lucy will take an opportunity of being

alone with you. I shall come in for tea, and we can go away together; I

am filled with anxiety, and want to consult with you alone as soon as I

can after you have seen her. Do not fail!

“ARTHUR.”

_Telegram, Arthur Holmwood to Seward._

“_1 September._

“Am summoned to see my father, who is worse. Am writing. Write me fully

by to-night’s post to Ring. Wire me if necessary.”

_Letter from Dr. Seward to Arthur Holmwood._

“_2 September._

“My dear old fellow,--

“With regard to Miss Westenra’s health I hasten to let you know at once

that in my opinion there is not any functional disturbance or any malady

that I know of. At the same time, I am not by any means satisfied with

her appearance; she is woefully different from what she was when I saw

her last. Of course you must bear in mind that I did not have full

opportunity of examination such as I should wish; our very friendship

makes a little difficulty which not even medical science or custom can

bridge over. I had better tell you exactly what happened, leaving you to

draw, in a measure, your own conclusions. I shall then say what I have

done and propose doing.

“I found Miss Westenra in seemingly gay spirits. Her mother was present,

and in a few seconds I made up my mind that she was trying all she knew

to mislead her mother and prevent her from being anxious. I have no

doubt she guesses, if she does not know, what need of caution there is.

We lunched alone, and as we all exerted ourselves to be cheerful, we

got, as some kind of reward for our labours, some real cheerfulness

amongst us. Then Mrs. Westenra went to lie down, and Lucy was left with

me. We went into her boudoir, and till we got there her gaiety remained,

for the servants were coming and going. As soon as the door was closed,

however, the mask fell from her face, and she sank down into a chair

with a great sigh, and hid her eyes with her hand. When I saw that her

high spirits had failed, I at once took advantage of her reaction to

make a diagnosis. She said to me very sweetly:--

“‘I cannot tell you how I loathe talking about myself.’ I reminded her

that a doctor’s confidence was sacred, but that you were grievously

anxious about her. She caught on to my meaning at once, and settled that

matter in a word. ‘Tell Arthur everything you choose. I do not care for

myself, but all for him!’ So I am quite free.

“I could easily see that she is somewhat bloodless, but I could not see

the usual anæmic signs, and by a chance I was actually able to test the

quality of her blood, for in opening a window which was stiff a cord

gave way, and she cut her hand slightly with broken glass. It was a

slight matter in itself, but it gave me an evident chance, and I secured

a few drops of the blood and have analysed them. The qualitative

analysis gives a quite normal condition, and shows, I should infer, in

itself a vigorous state of health. In other physical matters I was quite

satisfied that there is no need for anxiety; but as there must be a

cause somewhere, I have come to the conclusion that it must be something

mental. She complains of difficulty in breathing satisfactorily at