Meaning to keepe her closely at my Cell,

Till I conueniently could send to Romeo.

But when I came (some Minute ere the time

Of her awaking) heere vntimely lay

The Noble Paris, and true Romeo dead.

Shee wakes, and I intreated her come foorth,

And beare this worke of Heauen, with patience:

But then, a noyse did scarre me from the Tombe,

And she (too desperate) would not go with me,

But (as it seemes) did violence on her selfe.

All this I know, and to the Marriage her Nurse is priuy:

And if ought in this miscarried by my fault,

Let my old life be sacrific'd, some houre before the time,

Vnto the rigour of seuerest Law

 Prin. We still haue knowne thee for a Holy man.

Where's Romeo's man? What can he say to this?

 Boy. I brought my Master newes of Iuliets death,

And then in poste he came from Mantua

To this same place, to this same Monument.

This Letter he early bid me giue his Father,

And threatned me with death, going in the Vault,

If I departed not, and left him there

 Prin. Giue me the Letter, I will look on it.

Where is the Counties Page that rais'd the Watch?

Sirra, what made your Master in this place?

 Page. He came with flowres to strew his Ladies graue,

And bid me stand aloofe, and so I did:

Anon comes one with light to ope the Tombe,

And by and by my Maister drew on him,

And then I ran away to call the Watch

 Prin. This Letter doth make good the Friers words,

Their course of Loue, the tydings of her death:

And heere he writes, that he did buy a poyson

Of a poore Pothecarie, and therewithall

Came to this Vault to dye, and lye with Iuliet.

Where be these Enemies? Capulet, Mountague,

See what a scourge is laide vpon your hate,

That Heauen finds meanes to kill your ioyes with Loue;

And I, for winking at your discords too,

Haue lost a brace of Kinsmen: All are punish'd

 Cap. O Brother Mountague, giue me thy hand,

This is my Daughters ioynture, for no more

Can I demand

 Moun. But I can giue thee more:

For I will raise her Statue in pure Gold,

That whiles Verona by that name is knowne,

There shall no figure at that Rate be set,

As that of True and Faithfull Iuliet

 Cap. As rich shall Romeo by his Lady ly,

Poore sacrifices of our enmity

 Prin. A glooming peace this morning with it brings,

The Sunne for sorrow will not shew his head;

Go hence, to haue more talke of these sad things,

Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished.

For neuer was a Storie of more Wo,

Then this of Iuliet, and her Romeo.

Exeunt. omnes

FINIS.