stirred, however, by a breeze; so that a gleam of flickering sunshine

might now and then be seen at its solitary play along the path. This

flitting cheerfulness was always at the farther extremity of some long

vista through the forest. The sportive sunlight—feebly sportive, at

best, in the predominant pensiveness of the day and scene—withdrew

itself as they came nigh, and left the spots where it had danced the

drearier, because they had hoped to find them bright.

“Mother,” said little Pearl, “the sunshine does not love you. It runs

away and hides itself, because it is afraid of something on your

bosom. Now, see! There it is, playing, a good way off. Stand you

here, and let me run and catch it. I am but a child. It will not flee

from me; for I wear nothing on my bosom yet!”

“Nor ever will, my child, I hope,” said Hester.

“And why not, mother?” asked Pearl, stopping short, just at the

beginning of her race. “Will not it come of its own accord, when I am

a woman grown?”

“Run away, child,” answered her mother, “and catch the sunshine! It

will soon be gone.”

Pearl set forth, at a great pace, and, as Hester smiled to perceive,

did actually catch the sunshine, and stood laughing in the midst of

it, all brightened by its splendor, and scintillating with the

vivacity excited by rapid motion. The light lingered about the lonely

child, as if glad of such a playmate, until her mother had drawn

almost nigh enough to step into the magic circle too.

“It will go now,” said Pearl, shaking her head.

“See!” answered Hester, smiling. “Now I can stretch out my hand, and

grasp some of it.”

As she attempted to do so, the sunshine vanished; or, to judge from

the bright expression that was dancing on Pearl’s features, her mother

could have fancied that the child had absorbed it into herself, and

would give it forth again, with a gleam about her path, as they should

plunge into some gloomier shade. There was no other attribute that so

much impressed her with a sense of new and untransmitted vigor in

Pearl’s nature, as this never-failing vivacity of spirits; she had not

the disease of sadness, which almost all children, in these latter

days, inherit, with the scrofula, from the troubles of their

ancestors. Perhaps this too was a disease, and but the reflex of the

wild energy with which Hester had fought against her sorrows, before

Pearl’s birth. It was certainly a doubtful charm, imparting a hard,

metallic lustre to the child’s character. She wanted—what some people

want throughout life—a grief that should deeply touch her, and thus

humanize and make her capable of sympathy. But there was time enough

yet for little Pearl.

“Come, my child!” said Hester, looking about her from the spot where

Pearl had stood still in the sunshine. “We will sit down a little way

within the wood, and rest ourselves.”

“I am not aweary, mother,” replied the little girl. “But you may sit

down, if you will tell me a story meanwhile.”

“A story, child!” said Hester. “And about what?”

“O, a story about the Black Man,” answered Pearl, taking hold of her

mother’s gown, and looking up, half earnestly, half mischievously,

into her face. “How he haunts this forest, and carries a book with

him,—a big, heavy book, with iron clasps; and how this ugly Black Man

offers his book and an iron pen to everybody that meets him here among

the trees; and they are to write their names with their own blood. And

then he sets his mark on their bosoms! Didst thou ever meet the Black

Man, mother?”

“And who told you this story, Pearl?” asked her mother, recognizing a

common superstition of the period.

“It was the old dame in the chimney-corner, at the house where you

watched last night,” said the child. “But she fancied me asleep while

she was talking of it. She said that a thousand and a thousand people

had met him here, and had written in his book, and have his mark on

them. And that ugly-tempered lady, old Mistress Hibbins, was one. And,

mother, the old dame said that this scarlet letter was the Black Man’s

mark on thee, and that it glows like a red flame when thou meetest

him at midnight, here in the dark wood. Is it true, mother? And dost

thou go to meet him in the night-time?”

“Didst thou ever awake, and find thy mother gone?” asked Hester.