Moue them no more, by crossing their high will.

Exeunt.

 Mu. Faith we may put vp our Pipes and be gone

 Nur. Honest goodfellowes: Ah put vp, put vp,

For well you know, this is a pitifull case

 Mu. I by my troth, the case may be amended.

Enter Peter.

 Pet. Musitions, oh Musitions,

Hearts ease, hearts ease,

O, and you will haue me liue, play hearts ease

 Mu. Why hearts ease;

 Pet. O Musitions,

Because my heart it selfe plaies, my heart is full

 Mu. Not a dump we, 'tis no time to play now

 Pet. You will not then?

 Mu. No

 Pet. I will then giue it you soundly

 Mu. What will you giue vs?

 Pet. No money on my faith, but the gleeke.

I will giue you the Minstrell

 Mu. Then will I giue you the Seruing creature

 Peter. Then will I lay the seruing Creatures Dagger

on your pate. I will carie no Crochets, Ile Re you, Ile Fa

you, do you note me?

 Mu. And you Re vs, and Fa vs, you Note vs

 2.M. Pray you put vp your Dagger,

And put out your wit.

Then haue at you with my wit

 Peter. I will drie-beate you with an yron wit,

And put vp my yron Dagger.

Answere me like men:

When griping griefes the heart doth wound, then Musicke

with her siluer sound.

Why siluer sound? why Musicke with her siluer sound?

what say you Simon Catling?

 Mu. Mary sir, because siluer hath a sweet sound

 Pet. Pratest, what say you Hugh Rebicke?

 2.M. I say siluer sound, because Musitions sound for siluer

 Pet. Pratest to, what say you Iames Sound-Post?

 3.Mu. Faith I know not what to say

 Pet. O I cry you mercy, you are the Singer.

I will say for you; it is Musicke with her siluer sound,

Because Musitions haue no gold for sounding:

Then Musicke with her siluer sound, with speedy helpe

doth lend redresse.

Enter.

 Mu. What a pestilent knaue is this same?

 M.2. Hang him Iacke, come weele in here, tarrie for

the Mourners, and stay dinner.

Enter.

Enter Romeo.

 Rom. If I may trust the flattering truth of sleepe,

My dreames presage some ioyfull newes at hand:

My bosomes L[ord]. sits lightly in his throne:

And all this day an vnaccustom'd spirit,

Lifts me aboue the ground with cheerefull thoughts.

I dreamt my Lady came and found me dead,

(Strange dreame that giues a dead man leaue to thinke,)

And breath'd such life with kisses in my lips,

That I reuiu'd and was an Emperour.

Ah me, how sweet is loue it selfe possest,

When but loues shadowes are so rich in ioy.

Enter Romeo's man.

Newes from Verona, how now Balthazer?

Dost thou not bring me Letters from the Frier?

How doth my Lady? Is my Father well?

How doth my Lady Iuliet? that I aske againe,

For nothing can be ill, is she be well