and Wickham is not, like that of Crawford and Mrs. Rushworth, a_ coup de

théâtre; _it connects itself in the strictest way with the course of the

story earlier, and brings about the denouement with complete propriety.

All the minor passages--the loves of Jane and Bingley, the advent of Mr.

Collins, the visit to Hunsford, the Derbyshire tour--fit in after the

same unostentatious, but masterly fashion. There is no attempt at the

hide-and-seek, in-and-out business, which in the transactions between

Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax contributes no doubt a good deal to the

intrigue of_ Emma, _but contributes it in a fashion which I do not think

the best feature of that otherwise admirable book. Although Miss Austen

always liked something of the misunderstanding kind, which afforded her

opportunities for the display of the peculiar and incomparable talent to

be noticed presently, she has been satisfied here with the perfectly

natural occasions provided by the false account of Darcy’s conduct given

by Wickham, and by the awkwardness (arising with equal naturalness) from

the gradual transformation of Elizabeth’s own feelings from positive

aversion to actual love. I do not know whether the all-grasping hand of

the playwright has ever been laid upon_ Pride and Prejudice; _and I dare

say that, if it were, the situations would prove not startling or

garish enough for the footlights, the character-scheme too subtle and

delicate for pit and gallery. But if the attempt were made, it would

certainly not be hampered by any of those loosenesses of construction,

which, sometimes disguised by the conveniences of which the novelist can

avail himself, appear at once on the stage._

_I think, however, though the thought will doubtless seem heretical to

more than one school of critics, that construction is not the highest

merit, the choicest gift, of the novelist. It sets off his other gifts

and graces most advantageously to the critical eye; and the want of it

will sometimes mar those graces--appreciably, though not quite

consciously--to eyes by no means ultra-critical. But a very badly-built

novel which excelled in pathetic or humorous character, or which

displayed consummate command of dialogue--perhaps the rarest of all

faculties--would be an infinitely better thing than a faultless plot

acted and told by puppets with pebbles in their mouths. And despite the

ability which Miss Austen has shown in working out the story, I for one

should put_ Pride and Prejudice _far lower if it did not contain what

seem to me the very masterpieces of Miss Austen’s humour and of her

faculty of character-creation--masterpieces who may indeed admit John

Thorpe, the Eltons, Mrs. Norris, and one or two others to their company,

but who, in one instance certainly, and perhaps in others, are still

superior to them._

_The characteristics of Miss Austen’s humour are so subtle and delicate

that they are, perhaps, at all times easier to apprehend than to

express, and at any particular time likely to be differently

apprehended by different persons. To me this humour seems to possess a

greater affinity, on the whole, to that of Addison than to any other of

the numerous species of this great British genus. The differences of

scheme, of time, of subject, of literary convention, are, of course,

obvious enough; the difference of sex does not, perhaps, count for much,

for there was a distinctly feminine element in “Mr. Spectator,” and in

Jane Austen’s genius there was, though nothing mannish, much that was

masculine. But the likeness of quality consists in a great number of

common subdivisions of quality--demureness, extreme minuteness of touch,

avoidance of loud tones and glaring effects. Also there is in both a

certain not inhuman or unamiable cruelty. It is the custom with those

who judge grossly to contrast the good nature of Addison with the

savagery of Swift, the mildness of Miss Austen with the boisterousness

of Fielding and Smollett, even with the ferocious practical jokes that

her immediate predecessor, Miss Burney, allowed without very much

protest. Yet, both in Mr. Addison and in Miss Austen there is, though a

restrained and well-mannered, an insatiable and ruthless delight in

roasting and cutting up a fool. A man in the early eighteenth century,

of course, could push this taste further than a lady in the early

nineteenth; and no doubt Miss Austen’s principles, as well as her heart,

would have shrunk from such things as the letter from the unfortunate

husband in the_ Spectator, _who describes, with all the gusto and all the

innocence in the world, how his wife and his friend induce him to play

at blind-man’s-buff. But another_ Spectator _letter--that of the damsel

of fourteen who wishes to marry Mr. Shapely, and assures her selected

Mentor that “he admires your_ Spectators _mightily”--might have been

written by a rather more ladylike and intelligent Lydia Bennet in the

days of Lydia’s great-grandmother; while, on the other hand, some (I

think unreasonably) have found “cynicism” in touches of Miss Austen’s

own, such as her satire of Mrs. Musgrove’s self-deceiving regrets over

her son. But this word “cynical” is one of the most misused in the

English language, especially when, by a glaring and gratuitous

falsification of its original sense, it is applied, not to rough and

snarling invective, but to gentle and oblique satire. If cynicism means

the perception of “the other side,” the sense of “the accepted hells

beneath,” the consciousness that motives are nearly always mixed, and

that to seem is not identical with to be--if this be cynicism, then