“Look! Look! Look! See, two horsemen follow fast, coming up from the

south. It must be Quincey and John. Take the glass. Look before the snow

blots it all out!” I took it and looked. The two men might be Dr. Seward

and Mr. Morris. I knew at all events that neither of them was Jonathan.

At the same time I _knew_ that Jonathan was not far off; looking around

I saw on the north side of the coming party two other men, riding at

break-neck speed. One of them I knew was Jonathan, and the other I took,

of course, to be Lord Godalming. They, too, were pursuing the party with

the cart. When I told the Professor he shouted in glee like a schoolboy,

and, after looking intently till a snow fall made sight impossible, he

laid his Winchester rifle ready for use against the boulder at the

opening of our shelter. “They are all converging,” he said. “When the

time comes we shall have gypsies on all sides.” I got out my revolver

ready to hand, for whilst we were speaking the howling of wolves came

louder and closer. When the snow storm abated a moment we looked again.

It was strange to see the snow falling in such heavy flakes close to us,

and beyond, the sun shining more and more brightly as it sank down

towards the far mountain tops. Sweeping the glass all around us I could

see here and there dots moving singly and in twos and threes and larger

numbers--the wolves were gathering for their prey.

Every instant seemed an age whilst we waited. The wind came now in

fierce bursts, and the snow was driven with fury as it swept upon us in

circling eddies. At times we could not see an arm’s length before us;

but at others, as the hollow-sounding wind swept by us, it seemed to

clear the air-space around us so that we could see afar off. We had of

late been so accustomed to watch for sunrise and sunset, that we knew

with fair accuracy when it would be; and we knew that before long the

sun would set. It was hard to believe that by our watches it was less

than an hour that we waited in that rocky shelter before the various

bodies began to converge close upon us. The wind came now with fiercer

and more bitter sweeps, and more steadily from the north. It seemingly

had driven the snow clouds from us, for, with only occasional bursts,

the snow fell. We could distinguish clearly the individuals of each

party, the pursued and the pursuers. Strangely enough those pursued did

not seem to realise, or at least to care, that they were pursued; they

seemed, however, to hasten with redoubled speed as the sun dropped lower

and lower on the mountain tops.

Closer and closer they drew. The Professor and I crouched down behind

our rock, and held our weapons ready; I could see that he was determined

that they should not pass. One and all were quite unaware of our

presence.

All at once two voices shouted out to: “Halt!” One was my Jonathan’s,

raised in a high key of passion; the other Mr. Morris’ strong resolute

tone of quiet command. The gypsies may not have known the language, but

there was no mistaking the tone, in whatever tongue the words were

spoken. Instinctively they reined in, and at the instant Lord Godalming

and Jonathan dashed up at one side and Dr. Seward and Mr. Morris on the

other. The leader of the gypsies, a splendid-looking fellow who sat his

horse like a centaur, waved them back, and in a fierce voice gave to his

companions some word to proceed. They lashed the horses which sprang

forward; but the four men raised their Winchester rifles, and in an

unmistakable way commanded them to stop. At the same moment Dr. Van

Helsing and I rose behind the rock and pointed our weapons at them.

Seeing that they were surrounded the men tightened their reins and drew

up. The leader turned to them and gave a word at which every man of the

gypsy party drew what weapon he carried, knife or pistol, and held

himself in readiness to attack. Issue was joined in an instant.

The leader, with a quick movement of his rein, threw his horse out in

front, and pointing first to the sun--now close down on the hill

tops--and then to the castle, said something which I did not understand.

For answer, all four men of our party threw themselves from their horses

and dashed towards the cart. I should have felt terrible fear at seeing

Jonathan in such danger, but that the ardour of battle must have been

upon me as well as the rest of them; I felt no fear, but only a wild,

surging desire to do something. Seeing the quick movement of our