“It is not yet too late! Quick! quick! Bring the brandy!”

I flew downstairs and returned with it, taking care to smell and taste

it, lest it, too, were drugged like the decanter of sherry which I found

on the table. The maids were still breathing, but more restlessly, and I

fancied that the narcotic was wearing off. I did not stay to make sure,

but returned to Van Helsing. He rubbed the brandy, as on another

occasion, on her lips and gums and on her wrists and the palms of her

hands. He said to me:--

“I can do this, all that can be at the present. You go wake those maids.

Flick them in the face with a wet towel, and flick them hard. Make them

get heat and fire and a warm bath. This poor soul is nearly as cold as

that beside her. She will need be heated before we can do anything

more.”

I went at once, and found little difficulty in waking three of the

women. The fourth was only a young girl, and the drug had evidently

affected her more strongly, so I lifted her on the sofa and let her

sleep. The others were dazed at first, but as remembrance came back to

them they cried and sobbed in a hysterical manner. I was stern with

them, however, and would not let them talk. I told them that one life

was bad enough to lose, and that if they delayed they would sacrifice

Miss Lucy. So, sobbing and crying, they went about their way, half clad

as they were, and prepared fire and water. Fortunately, the kitchen and

boiler fires were still alive, and there was no lack of hot water. We

got a bath and carried Lucy out as she was and placed her in it. Whilst

we were busy chafing her limbs there was a knock at the hall door. One

of the maids ran off, hurried on some more clothes, and opened it. Then

she returned and whispered to us that there was a gentleman who had come

with a message from Mr. Holmwood. I bade her simply tell him that he

must wait, for we could see no one now. She went away with the message,

and, engrossed with our work, I clean forgot all about him.

I never saw in all my experience the Professor work in such deadly

earnest. I knew--as he knew--that it was a stand-up fight with death,

and in a pause told him so. He answered me in a way that I did not

understand, but with the sternest look that his face could wear:--

“If that were all, I would stop here where we are now, and let her fade

away into peace, for I see no light in life over her horizon.” He went

on with his work with, if possible, renewed and more frenzied vigour.

Presently we both began to be conscious that the heat was beginning to

be of some effect. Lucy’s heart beat a trifle more audibly to the

stethoscope, and her lungs had a perceptible movement. Van Helsing’s

face almost beamed, and as we lifted her from the bath and rolled her in

a hot sheet to dry her he said to me:--

“The first gain is ours! Check to the King!”

We took Lucy into another room, which had by now been prepared, and laid

her in bed and forced a few drops of brandy down her throat. I noticed

that Van Helsing tied a soft silk handkerchief round her throat. She was

still unconscious, and was quite as bad as, if not worse than, we had

ever seen her.

Van Helsing called in one of the women, and told her to stay with her

and not to take her eyes off her till we returned, and then beckoned me

out of the room.

“We must consult as to what is to be done,” he said as we descended the

stairs. In the hall he opened the dining-room door, and we passed in, he

closing the door carefully behind him. The shutters had been opened, but

the blinds were already down, with that obedience to the etiquette of

death which the British woman of the lower classes always rigidly

observes. The room was, therefore, dimly dark. It was, however, light

enough for our purposes. Van Helsing’s sternness was somewhat relieved

by a look of perplexity. He was evidently torturing his mind about

something, so I waited for an instant, and he spoke:--

“What are we to do now? Where are we to turn for help? We must have