Giue me some present counsell, or behold

Twixt my extreames and me, this bloody knife

Shall play the vmpeere, arbitrating that,

Which the commission of thy yeares and art,

Could to no issue of true honour bring:

Be not so long to speak, I long to die,

If what thou speak'st, speake not of remedy

 Fri. Hold Daughter, I doe spie a kind of hope,

Which craues as desperate an execution,

As that is desperate which we would preuent.

If rather then to marrie Countie Paris

Thou hast the strength of will to slay thy selfe,

Then is it likely thou wilt vndertake

A thing like death to chide away this shame,

That coap'st with death himselfe, to scape fro it:

And if thou dar'st, Ile giue thee remedie

 Iul. Oh bid me leape, rather then marrie Paris,

From of the Battlements of any Tower,

Or walke in theeuish waies, or bid me lurke

Where Serpents are: chaine me with roaring Beares

Or hide me nightly in a Charnell house,

Orecouered quite with dead mens ratling bones,

With reckie shankes and yellow chappels sculls:

Or bid me go into a new made graue,

And hide me with a dead man in his graue,

Things that to heare them told, haue made me tremble,

And I will doe it without feare or doubt,

To liue an vnstained wife to my sweet Loue

 Fri. Hold then: goe home, be merrie, giue consent,

To marrie Paris: wensday is to morrow,

To morrow night looke that thou lie alone,

Let not thy Nurse lie with thee in thy Chamber:

Take thou this Violl being then in bed,

And this distilling liquor drinke thou off,

When presently through all thy veines shall run,

A cold and drowsie humour: for no pulse

Shall keepe his natiue progresse, but surcease:

No warmth, no breath shall testifie thou liuest,

The Roses in thy lips and cheekes shall fade

To many ashes, the eyes windowes fall

Like death when he shut vp the day of life:

Each part depriu'd of supple gouernment,

Shall stiffe and starke, and cold appeare like death,

And in this borrowed likenesse of shrunke death

Thou shalt continue two and forty houres,

And then awake, as from a pleasant sleepe.

Now when the Bridegroome in the morning comes,

To rowse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:

Then as the manner of our country is,

In thy best Robes vncouer'd on the Beere,

Be borne to buriall in thy kindreds graue:

Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault,

Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie,

In the meane time against thou shalt awake,

Shall Romeo by my Letters know our drift,

And hither shall he come, and that very night

Shall Romeo beare thee hence to Mantua.

And this shall free thee from this present shame,

If no inconstant toy nor womanish feare,

Abate thy valour in the acting it

 Iul. Giue me, giue me, O tell me not of care

 Fri. Hold get you gone, be strong and prosperous:

In this resolue, Ile send a Frier with speed

To Mantua with my Letters to thy Lord

 Iu. Loue giue me strength,

And the strength shall helpe afford:

Farewell deare father.

Exit

Enter Father Capulet, Mother, Nurse, and Seruing men, two or

three.

 Cap. So many guests inuite as here are writ,

Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning Cookes

 Ser. You shall haue none ill sir, for Ile trie if they can

licke their fingers

 Cap. How canst thou trie them so?

 Ser. Marrie sir, 'tis an ill Cooke that cannot licke his

owne fingers: therefore he that cannot licke his fingers

goes not with me

 Cap. Go be gone, we shall be much vnfurnisht for this

time: what is my Daughter gone to Frier Lawrence?

 Nur. I forsooth

 Cap. Well he may chance to do some good on her,

A peeuish selfe-wild harlotry it is.

Enter Iuliet.

 Nur. See where she comes from shrift