The two men sitting on the bed stood up and came over, standing behind

him so that he could not see them, but where they could hear better.

They were both silent, but the Professor started and quivered; his face,

however, grew grimmer and sterner still. Renfield went on without

noticing:--

“When Mrs. Harker came in to see me this afternoon she wasn’t the same;

it was like tea after the teapot had been watered.” Here we all moved,

but no one said a word; he went on:--

“I didn’t know that she was here till she spoke; and she didn’t look the

same. I don’t care for the pale people; I like them with lots of blood

in them, and hers had all seemed to have run out. I didn’t think of it

at the time; but when she went away I began to think, and it made me mad

to know that He had been taking the life out of her.” I could feel that

the rest quivered, as I did, but we remained otherwise still. “So when

He came to-night I was ready for Him. I saw the mist stealing in, and I

grabbed it tight. I had heard that madmen have unnatural strength; and

as I knew I was a madman--at times anyhow--I resolved to use my power.

Ay, and He felt it too, for He had to come out of the mist to struggle

with me. I held tight; and I thought I was going to win, for I didn’t

mean Him to take any more of her life, till I saw His eyes. They burned

into me, and my strength became like water. He slipped through it, and

when I tried to cling to Him, He raised me up and flung me down. There

was a red cloud before me, and a noise like thunder, and the mist seemed

to steal away under the door.” His voice was becoming fainter and his

breath more stertorous. Van Helsing stood up instinctively.

“We know the worst now,” he said. “He is here, and we know his purpose.

It may not be too late. Let us be armed--the same as we were the other

night, but lose no time; there is not an instant to spare.” There was no

need to put our fear, nay our conviction, into words--we shared them in

common. We all hurried and took from our rooms the same things that we

had when we entered the Count’s house. The Professor had his ready, and

as we met in the corridor he pointed to them significantly as he said:--

“They never leave me; and they shall not till this unhappy business is

over. Be wise also, my friends. It is no common enemy that we deal with.

Alas! alas! that that dear Madam Mina should suffer!” He stopped; his

voice was breaking, and I do not know if rage or terror predominated in

my own heart.

Outside the Harkers’ door we paused. Art and Quincey held back, and the

latter said:--

“Should we disturb her?”

“We must,” said Van Helsing grimly. “If the door be locked, I shall

break it in.”

“May it not frighten her terribly? It is unusual to break into a lady’s

room!”

Van Helsing said solemnly, “You are always right; but this is life and

death. All chambers are alike to the doctor; and even were they not they

are all as one to me to-night. Friend John, when I turn the handle, if

the door does not open, do you put your shoulder down and shove; and you

too, my friends. Now!”

He turned the handle as he spoke, but the door did not yield. We threw

ourselves against it; with a crash it burst open, and we almost fell

headlong into the room. The Professor did actually fall, and I saw

across him as he gathered himself up from hands and knees. What I saw

appalled me. I felt my hair rise like bristles on the back of my neck,

and my heart seemed to stand still.

The moonlight was so bright that through the thick yellow blind the room

was light enough to see. On the bed beside the window lay Jonathan

Harker, his face flushed and breathing heavily as though in a stupor.

Kneeling on the near edge of the bed facing outwards was the white-clad

figure of his wife. By her side stood a tall, thin man, clad in black.

His face was turned from us, but the instant we saw we all recognised

the Count--in every way, even to the scar on his forehead. With his left

hand he held both Mrs. Harker’s hands, keeping them away with her arms

at full tension; his right hand gripped her by the back of the neck,

forcing her face down on his bosom. Her white nightdress was smeared

with blood, and a thin stream trickled down the man’s bare breast which