no glove to cover it!”

“Thank you, my good friend,” said the minister, gravely, but startled

at heart; for, so confused was his remembrance, that he had almost

brought himself to look at the events of the past night as visionary.

“Yes, it seems to be my glove, indeed!”

“And since Satan saw fit to steal it, your reverence must needs handle

him without gloves, henceforward,” remarked the old sexton, grimly

smiling. “But did your reverence hear of the portent that was seen

last night?—a great red letter in the sky,—the letter A, which we

interpret to stand for Angel. For, as our good Governor Winthrop was

made an angel this past night, it was doubtless held fit that there

should be some notice thereof!”

“No,” answered the minister, “I had not heard of it.”

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 XIII.

 ANOTHER VIEW OF HESTER.

In her late singular interview with Mr. Dimmesdale, Hester Prynne was

shocked at the condition to which she found the clergyman reduced. His

nerve seemed absolutely destroyed. His moral force was abased into

more than childish weakness. It grovelled helpless on the ground, even

while his intellectual faculties retained their pristine strength, or

had perhaps acquired a morbid energy, which disease only could have

given them. With her knowledge of a train of circumstances hidden from

all others, she could readily infer that, besides the legitimate

action of his own conscience, a terrible machinery had been brought to

bear, and was still operating, on Mr. Dimmesdale’s well-being and

repose. Knowing what this poor, fallen man had once been, her whole

soul was moved by the shuddering terror with which he had appealed to

her,—the outcast woman,—for support against his instinctively

discovered enemy. She decided, moreover, that he had a right to her

utmost aid. Little accustomed, in her long seclusion from society, to

measure her ideas of right and wrong by any standard external to

herself, Hester saw—or seemed to see—that there lay a responsibility

upon her, in reference to the clergyman, which she owed to no other,

nor to the whole world besides. The links that united her to the rest

of human kind—links of flowers, or silk, or gold, or whatever the

material—had all been broken. Here was the iron link of mutual crime,

which neither he nor she could break. Like all other ties, it brought

along with it its obligations.

Hester Prynne did not now occupy precisely the same position in which

we beheld her during the earlier periods of her ignominy. Years had

come and gone. Pearl was now seven years old. Her mother, with the

scarlet letter on her breast, glittering in its fantastic embroidery,

had long been a familiar object to the towns-people. As is apt to be

the case when a person stands out in any prominence before the

community, and, at the same time, interferes neither with public nor

individual interests and convenience, a species of general regard had

ultimately grown up in reference to Hester Prynne. It is to the credit

of human nature, that, except where its selfishness is brought into

play, it loves more readily than it hates. Hatred, by a gradual and

quiet process, will even be transformed to love, unless the change be

impeded by a continually new irritation of the original feeling of

hostility. In this matter of Hester Prynne, there was neither

irritation nor irksomeness. She never battled with the public, but

submitted, uncomplainingly, to its worst usage; she made no claim upon

it, in requital for what she suffered; she did not weigh upon its

sympathies. Then, also, the blameless purity of her life during all

these years in which she had been set apart to infamy, was reckoned

largely in her favor. With nothing now to lose, in the sight of

mankind, and with no hope, and seemingly no wish, of gaining anything,

it could only be a genuine regard for virtue that had brought back the

poor wanderer to its paths.

[Illustration: Hester in the House of Mourning]

It was perceived, too, that while Hester never put forward even the

humblest title to share in the world’s privileges,—further than to

breathe the common air, and earn daily bread for little Pearl and

herself by the faithful labor of her hands,—she was quick to

acknowledge her sisterhood with the race of man, whenever benefits

were to be conferred. None so ready as she to give of her little

substance to every demand of poverty; even though the bitter-hearted

pauper threw back a gibe in requital of the food brought regularly to

his door, or the garments wrought for him by the fingers that could

have embroidered a monarch’s robe. None so self-devoted as Hester,