send keepers with me with whips and chains; let them take me in a

strait-waistcoat, manacled and leg-ironed, even to a gaol; but let me go

out of this. You don’t know what you do by keeping me here. I am

speaking from the depths of my heart--of my very soul. You don’t know

whom you wrong, or how; and I may not tell. Woe is me! I may not tell.

By all you hold sacred--by all you hold dear--by your love that is

lost--by your hope that lives--for the sake of the Almighty, take me out

of this and save my soul from guilt! Can’t you hear me, man? Can’t you

understand? Will you never learn? Don’t you know that I am sane and

earnest now; that I am no lunatic in a mad fit, but a sane man fighting

for his soul? Oh, hear me! hear me! Let me go! let me go! let me go!”

I thought that the longer this went on the wilder he would get, and so

would bring on a fit; so I took him by the hand and raised him up.

“Come,” I said sternly, “no more of this; we have had quite enough

already. Get to your bed and try to behave more discreetly.”

He suddenly stopped and looked at me intently for several moments. Then,

without a word, he rose and moving over, sat down on the side of the

bed. The collapse had come, as on former occasion, just as I had

expected.

When I was leaving the room, last of our party, he said to me in a

quiet, well-bred voice:--

“You will, I trust, Dr. Seward, do me the justice to bear in mind, later

on, that I did what I could to convince you to-night.”

CHAPTER XIX

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL

_1 October, 5 a. m._--I went with the party to the search with an easy

mind, for I think I never saw Mina so absolutely strong and well. I am

so glad that she consented to hold back and let us men do the work.

Somehow, it was a dread to me that she was in this fearful business at

all; but now that her work is done, and that it is due to her energy and

brains and foresight that the whole story is put together in such a way

that every point tells, she may well feel that her part is finished, and

that she can henceforth leave the rest to us. We were, I think, all a

little upset by the scene with Mr. Renfield. When we came away from his

room we were silent till we got back to the study. Then Mr. Morris said

to Dr. Seward:--

“Say, Jack, if that man wasn’t attempting a bluff, he is about the

sanest lunatic I ever saw. I’m not sure, but I believe that he had some

serious purpose, and if he had, it was pretty rough on him not to get a

chance.” Lord Godalming and I were silent, but Dr. Van Helsing added:--

“Friend John, you know more of lunatics than I do, and I’m glad of it,

for I fear that if it had been to me to decide I would before that last

hysterical outburst have given him free. But we live and learn, and in

our present task we must take no chance, as my friend Quincey would say.

All is best as they are.” Dr. Seward seemed to answer them both in a

dreamy kind of way:--

“I don’t know but that I agree with you. If that man had been an

ordinary lunatic I would have taken my chance of trusting him; but he

seems so mixed up with the Count in an indexy kind of way that I am

afraid of doing anything wrong by helping his fads. I can’t forget how

he prayed with almost equal fervour for a cat, and then tried to tear my

throat out with his teeth. Besides, he called the Count ‘lord and

master,’ and he may want to get out to help him in some diabolical way.

That horrid thing has the wolves and the rats and his own kind to help

him, so I suppose he isn’t above trying to use a respectable lunatic. He

certainly did seem earnest, though. I only hope we have done what is

best. These things, in conjunction with the wild work we have in hand,

help to unnerve a man.” The Professor stepped over, and laying his hand

on his shoulder, said in his grave, kindly way:--

“Friend John, have no fear. We are trying to do our duty in a very sad

and terrible case; we can only do as we deem best. What else have we to

hope for, except the pity of the good God?” Lord Godalming had slipped

away for a few minutes, but now he returned. He held up a little silver

whistle, as he remarked:--

“That old place may be full of rats, and if so, I’ve got an antidote on

call.” Having passed the wall, we took our way to the house, taking care

to keep in the shadows of the trees on the lawn when the moonlight shone