was visible the tie that united them. She had been offered to the

world, these seven years past, as the living hieroglyphic, in which

was revealed the secret they so darkly sought to hide,—all written in

this symbol,—all plainly manifest,—had there been a prophet or

magician skilled to read the character of flame! And Pearl was the

oneness of their being. Be the foregone evil what it might, how could

they doubt that their earthly lives and future destinies were

conjoined, when they beheld at once the material union, and the

spiritual idea, in whom they met, and were to dwell immortally

together? Thoughts like these—and perhaps other thoughts, which they

did not acknowledge or define—threw an awe about the child, as she

came onward.

“Let her see nothing strange—no passion nor eagerness—in thy way of

accosting her,” whispered Hester. “Our Pearl is a fitful and fantastic

little elf, sometimes. Especially, she is seldom tolerant of emotion,

when she does not fully comprehend the why and wherefore. But the

child hath strong affections! She loves me, and will love thee!”

“Thou canst not think,” said the minister, glancing aside at Hester

Prynne, “how my heart dreads this interview, and yearns for it! But,

in truth, as I already told thee, children are not readily won to be

familiar with me. They will not climb my knee, nor prattle in my ear,

nor answer to my smile; but stand apart, and eye me strangely. Even

little babes, when I take them in my arms, weep bitterly. Yet Pearl,

twice in her little lifetime, hath been kind to me! The first

time,—thou knowest it well! The last was when thou ledst her with

thee to the house of yonder stern old Governor.”

“And thou didst plead so bravely in her behalf and mine!” answered the

mother. “I remember it; and so shall little Pearl. Fear nothing! She

may be strange and shy at first, but will soon learn to love thee!”

By this time Pearl had reached the margin of the brook, and stood on

the farther side, gazing silently at Hester and the clergyman, who

still sat together on the mossy tree-trunk, waiting to receive her.

Just where she had paused, the brook chanced to form a pool, so smooth

and quiet that it reflected a perfect image of her little figure, with

all the brilliant picturesqueness of her beauty, in its adornment of

flowers and wreathed foliage, but more refined and spiritualized than

the reality. This image, so nearly identical with the living Pearl,

seemed to communicate somewhat of its own shadowy and intangible

quality to the child herself. It was strange, the way in which Pearl

stood, looking so steadfastly at them through the dim medium of the

forest-gloom; herself, meanwhile, all glorified with a ray of

sunshine, that was attracted thitherward as by a certain sympathy. In

the brook beneath stood another child,—another and the same,—with

likewise its ray of golden light. Hester felt herself, in some

indistinct and tantalizing manner, estranged from Pearl; as if the

child, in her lonely ramble through the forest, had strayed out of the

sphere in which she and her mother dwelt together, and was now vainly

seeking to return to it.

There was both truth and error in the impression; the child and

mother were estranged, but through Hester’s fault, not Pearl’s. Since

the latter rambled from her side, another inmate had been admitted

within the circle of the mother’s feelings, and so modified the aspect

of them all, that Pearl, the returning wanderer, could not find her

wonted place, and hardly knew where she was.

“I have a strange fancy,” observed the sensitive minister, “that this

brook is the boundary between two worlds, and that thou canst never

meet thy Pearl again. Or is she an elfish spirit, who, as the legends

of our childhood taught us, is forbidden to cross a running stream?

Pray hasten her; for this delay has already imparted a tremor to my

nerves.”

“Come, dearest child!” said Hester, encouragingly, and stretching out

both her arms. “How slow thou art! When hast thou been so sluggish

before now? Here is a friend of mine, who must be thy friend also.

Thou wilt have twice as much love, henceforward, as thy mother alone

could give thee! Leap across the brook, and come to us. Thou canst

leap like a young deer!”

[Illustration: The Child at the Brook-Side]

Pearl, without responding in any manner to these honey-sweet

expressions, remained on the other side of the brook. Now she fixed

her bright, wild eyes on her mother, now on the minister, and now