But a backward glance over his shoulder did not show that the new

helper was engaging in the pursuit, and he could have started almost on

the same terms as Tom himself.

The runaway, looking back to see how near the young inventor was to

him, suddenly changed his course, and, noting this, Tom Swift thought:

"I've got him now! He'll be bogged if he runs that way," for the way

led to a piece of swampy land that, after the recent rains, was a

veritable bog which was dangerous for cattle at least; and more than

one man had been caught there.

"He can't run across the swamp, that's sure," reflected Tom with some

satisfaction. "I'll get him all right!"

But he wanted to capture the man, if possible, before he reached the

bog, and, to this end, Tom increased his speed to such good end that

presently, on the firm ground that bordered the swamp, Tom was almost

within reaching distance of the stranger.

But the latter kept up running, and dodged and turned so that Tom could

not lay hands on him. Suddenly, turning around a clump of trees the

fleeing man headed straight for a veritable mud hole that lay directly

in his path. It was part of the swamp--the most liquid part of the bog

and a home of frogs and lizards.

Too late, the man, who was evidently unaware of the proximity of the

swamp, saw his danger. His further flight was cut off by the mud hole,

but it was too late to turn back. Tom Swift was at his heels now, and

seeing that it was impossible to grab the man, Tom did the next best

thing. He stuck out his foot and tripped him, and tripped him right on

the edge of the mud hole, so that the man fell in with a big splash,

the muddy water flying all around, some even over the young inventor.

For a moment the man disappeared completely beneath the surface, for

the mud hole was rather deep just where Tom had thrown him. Then there

was another violent agitation of the surface, and a very woebegone and

muddy face was raised from the slough, followed by the rest of the

figure of the man. Slowly he got to his feet, mud and water dripping

from him. He cleared his face by rubbing his hands over it, not that it

made his countenance clean, but it removed masses of mud from his eyes,

nose, and mouth, so that he could see and speak, though his first

operation was to gasp for breath.

"What--what are you doin'?" he demanded of Tom, and as the man opened

his mouth to speak Tom was aware of a glitter, which disclosed the

'fact that the man had a large front tooth of gold.

"What am I doing?" repeated Tom. "I think it's up to you to answer that

question, not me. What are you doing?"

"You--you tripped me into this mud hole!" declared the man.

"I did, yes; because you were trespassing on my property, and ran away

instead of stopping when I told you to," went on Tom. "Who are you and

what are you doing? What were you doing with Bower at my shop?"

"Nothin'! I wasn't doin' nothin'!"

"Well, we'll inquire into that. I want to see what you have in your

pockets before I believe you. Come on out!"

"You haven't any right to go through my pockets!" blustered the

stranger.

"Oh, haven't I? Well, I'm going to take the right. Jackson--Koku--just

see that he doesn't get away. We'll take him back and search him," and

Tom motioned to his chief machinist and the giant, who had reached the

scene, to take charge of the man. But Koku was sufficient for this

purpose, and the mud-bespattered stranger seemed to shrink as he saw

the big creature approach him. There was no question of running away

after that.

"Bring him along," ordered Tom, and Koku, taking a tight grip on the

man by the slack of his garments behind, walked him along toward the

office, the mud and water splashing and oozing from his shoes at every

step.

"Now you look here!" the gold-toothed man cried, as he was forced

along, "you ain't got any right to detain me. I ain't done nothin'!"

And each time he spoke the bright tooth in his mouth glittered in the

sun.

"I don't know whether you've done anything or not," said Tom. "I'm

going to take you back and see what you and Bower have to say. He may

know something about this."

"If he does I don't believe he'll tell," said Jackson.