Hereafter it may be of interest to you to see how true you guess. We

learn from failure, not from success!”

When I described Lucy’s symptoms--the same as before, but infinitely

more marked--he looked very grave, but said nothing. He took with him a

bag in which were many instruments and drugs, “the ghastly paraphernalia

of our beneficial trade,” as he once called, in one of his lectures, the

equipment of a professor of the healing craft. When we were shown in,

Mrs. Westenra met us. She was alarmed, but not nearly so much as I

expected to find her. Nature in one of her beneficent moods has ordained

that even death has some antidote to its own terrors. Here, in a case

where any shock may prove fatal, matters are so ordered that, from some

cause or other, the things not personal--even the terrible change in her

daughter to whom she is so attached--do not seem to reach her. It is

something like the way Dame Nature gathers round a foreign body an

envelope of some insensitive tissue which can protect from evil that

which it would otherwise harm by contact. If this be an ordered

selfishness, then we should pause before we condemn any one for the vice

of egoism, for there may be deeper root for its causes than we have

knowledge of.

I used my knowledge of this phase of spiritual pathology, and laid down

a rule that she should not be present with Lucy or think of her illness

more than was absolutely required. She assented readily, so readily that

I saw again the hand of Nature fighting for life. Van Helsing and I were

shown up to Lucy’s room. If I was shocked when I saw her yesterday, I

was horrified when I saw her to-day. She was ghastly, chalkily pale; the

red seemed to have gone even from her lips and gums, and the bones of

her face stood out prominently; her breathing was painful to see or

hear. Van Helsing’s face grew set as marble, and his eyebrows converged

till they almost touched over his nose. Lucy lay motionless, and did not

seem to have strength to speak, so for a while we were all silent. Then

Van Helsing beckoned to me, and we went gently out of the room. The

instant we had closed the door he stepped quickly along the passage to

the next door, which was open. Then he pulled me quickly in with him and

closed the door. “My God!” he said; “this is dreadful. There is no time

to be lost. She will die for sheer want of blood to keep the heart’s

action as it should be. There must be transfusion of blood at once. Is

it you or me?”

“I am younger and stronger, Professor. It must be me.”

“Then get ready at once. I will bring up my bag. I am prepared.”

I went downstairs with him, and as we were going there was a knock at

the hall-door. When we reached the hall the maid had just opened the

door, and Arthur was stepping quickly in. He rushed up to me, saying in

an eager whisper:--

“Jack, I was so anxious. I read between the lines of your letter, and

have been in an agony. The dad was better, so I ran down here to see for

myself. Is not that gentleman Dr. Van Helsing? I am so thankful to you,

sir, for coming.” When first the Professor’s eye had lit upon him he had

been angry at his interruption at such a time; but now, as he took in

his stalwart proportions and recognised the strong young manhood which

seemed to emanate from him, his eyes gleamed. Without a pause he said to

him gravely as he held out his hand:--

“Sir, you have come in time. You are the lover of our dear miss. She is

bad, very, very bad. Nay, my child, do not go like that.” For he

suddenly grew pale and sat down in a chair almost fainting. “You are to

help her. You can do more than any that live, and your courage is your

best help.”

“What can I do?” asked Arthur hoarsely. “Tell me, and I shall do it. My

life is hers, and I would give the last drop of blood in my body for

her.” The Professor has a strongly humorous side, and I could from old

knowledge detect a trace of its origin in his answer:--