he thought he was late, and expressed his fear. I assured him that Lucy

was still asleep, but told him as gently as I could that both Van

Helsing and I feared that the end was near. He covered his face with his

hands, and slid down on his knees by the sofa, where he remained,

perhaps a minute, with his head buried, praying, whilst his shoulders

shook with grief. I took him by the hand and raised him up. “Come,” I

said, “my dear old fellow, summon all your fortitude: it will be best

and easiest for her.”

When we came into Lucy’s room I could see that Van Helsing had, with

his usual forethought, been putting matters straight and making

everything look as pleasing as possible. He had even brushed Lucy’s

hair, so that it lay on the pillow in its usual sunny ripples. When we

came into the room she opened her eyes, and seeing him, whispered

softly:--

“Arthur! Oh, my love, I am so glad you have come!” He was stooping to

kiss her, when Van Helsing motioned him back. “No,” he whispered, “not

yet! Hold her hand; it will comfort her more.”

So Arthur took her hand and knelt beside her, and she looked her best,

with all the soft lines matching the angelic beauty of her eyes. Then

gradually her eyes closed, and she sank to sleep. For a little bit her

breast heaved softly, and her breath came and went like a tired child’s.

And then insensibly there came the strange change which I had noticed in

the night. Her breathing grew stertorous, the mouth opened, and the pale

gums, drawn back, made the teeth look longer and sharper than ever. In a

sort of sleep-waking, vague, unconscious way she opened her eyes, which

were now dull and hard at once, and said in a soft, voluptuous voice,

such as I had never heard from her lips:--

“Arthur! Oh, my love, I am so glad you have come! Kiss me!” Arthur bent

eagerly over to kiss her; but at that instant Van Helsing, who, like me,

had been startled by her voice, swooped upon him, and catching him by

the neck with both hands, dragged him back with a fury of strength which

I never thought he could have possessed, and actually hurled him almost

across the room.

“Not for your life!” he said; “not for your living soul and hers!” And

he stood between them like a lion at bay.

Arthur was so taken aback that he did not for a moment know what to do

or say; and before any impulse of violence could seize him he realised

the place and the occasion, and stood silent, waiting.

I kept my eyes fixed on Lucy, as did Van Helsing, and we saw a spasm as

of rage flit like a shadow over her face; the sharp teeth champed

together. Then her eyes closed, and she breathed heavily.

Very shortly after she opened her eyes in all their softness, and

putting out her poor, pale, thin hand, took Van Helsing’s great brown

one; drawing it to her, she kissed it. “My true friend,” she said, in a

faint voice, but with untellable pathos, “My true friend, and his! Oh,

guard him, and give me peace!”

“I swear it!” he said solemnly, kneeling beside her and holding up his

hand, as one who registers an oath. Then he turned to Arthur, and said

to him: “Come, my child, take her hand in yours, and kiss her on the

forehead, and only once.”

Their eyes met instead of their lips; and so they parted.

Lucy’s eyes closed; and Van Helsing, who had been watching closely, took

Arthur’s arm, and drew him away.

And then Lucy’s breathing became stertorous again, and all at once it

ceased.

“It is all over,” said Van Helsing. “She is dead!”

I took Arthur by the arm, and led him away to the drawing-room, where he

sat down, and covered his face with his hands, sobbing in a way that

nearly broke me down to see.

I went back to the room, and found Van Helsing looking at poor Lucy, and

his face was sterner than ever. Some change had come over her body.

Death had given back part of her beauty, for her brow and cheeks had

recovered some of their flowing lines; even the lips had lost their

deadly pallor. It was as if the blood, no longer needed for the working

of the heart, had gone to make the harshness of death as little rude as

might be.

 “We thought her dying whilst she slept,

 And sleeping when she died.”

I stood beside Van Helsing, and said:--

“Ah, well, poor girl, there is peace for her at last. It is the end!”

He turned to me, and said with grave solemnity:--

“Not so; alas! not so. It is only the beginning!”

When I asked him what he meant, he only shook his head and answered:--