Blind is his Loue, and best befits the darke

 Mer. If Loue be blind, Loue cannot hit the marke,

Now will he sit vnder a Medler tree,

And wish his Mistresse were that kind of Fruite,

As Maides cal Medlers when they laugh alone,

O Romeo that she were, O that she were

An open, or thou a Poprin Peare,

Romeo goodnight, Ile to my Truckle bed,

This Field-bed is to cold for me to sleepe,

Come shall we go?

 Ben. Go then, for 'tis in vaine to seeke him here

That meanes not to be found.

Exeunt.

 Rom. He ieasts at Scarres that neuer felt a wound,

But soft, what light through yonder window breaks?

It is the East, and Iuliet is the Sunne,

Arise faire Sun and kill the enuious Moone,

Who is already sicke and pale with griefe,

That thou her Maid art far more faire then she:

Be not her Maid since she is enuious,

Her Vestal liuery is but sicke and greene,

And none but fooles do weare it, cast it off:

It is my Lady, O it is my Loue, O that she knew she were,

She speakes, yet she sayes nothing, what of that?

Her eye discourses, I will answere it:

I am too bold 'tis not to me she speakes:

Two of the fairest starres in all the Heauen,

Hauing some businesse do entreat her eyes,

To twinckle in their Spheres till they returne.

What if her eyes were there, they in her head,

The brightnesse of her cheeke would shame those starres,

As day-light doth a Lampe, her eye in heauen,

Would through the ayrie Region streame so bright,

That Birds would sing, and thinke it were not night:

See how she leanes her cheeke vpon her hand.

O that I were a Gloue vpon that hand,

That I might touch that cheeke

 Iul. Ay me

 Rom. She speakes.

Oh speake againe bright Angell, for thou art

As glorious to this night being ore my head,

As is a winged messenger of heauen

Vnto the white vpturned wondring eyes

Of mortalls that fall backe to gaze on him,

When he bestrides the lazie puffing Cloudes,

And sailes vpon the bosome of the ayre

 Iul. O Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo?

Denie thy Father and refuse thy name:

Or if thou wilt not, be but sworne to my Loue,

And Ile no longer be a Capulet

 Rom. Shall I heare more, or shall I speake at this?

 Iu. 'Tis but thy name that is my Enemy:

Thou art thy selfe, though not a Mountague,

What's Mountague? it is nor hand nor foote,

Nor arme, nor face, O be some other name

Belonging to a man.

What? in a names that which we call a Rose,

By any other word would smell as sweete,

So Romeo would, were he not Romeo cal'd,

Retaine that deare perfection which he owes,

Without that title Romeo, doffe thy name,

And for thy name which is no part of thee,

Take all my selfe

 Rom. I take thee at thy word:

Call me but Loue, and Ile be new baptiz'd,

Hence foorth I neuer will be Romeo

 Iuli. What man art thou, that thus bescreen'd in night

So stumblest on my counsell?

 Rom. By a name,

I know not how to tell thee who I am:

My name deare Saint, is hatefull to my selfe,

Because it is an Enemy to thee,

Had I it written, I would teare the word

 Iuli. My eares haue yet not drunke a hundred words

Of thy tongues vttering, yet I know the sound.

Art thou not Romeo, and a Montague?

 Rom. Neither faire Maid, if either thee dislike

 Iul. How cam'st thou hither.

Tell me, and wherefore?

The Orchard walls are high, and hard to climbe,

And the place death, considering who thou art,

If any of my kinsmen find thee here,