westward the great city was dimmed; and southward, beyond the Martians,

the green waves of Regent’s Park, the Langham Hotel, the dome of the

Albert Hall, the Imperial Institute, and the giant mansions of the

Brompton Road came out clear and little in the sunrise, the jagged

ruins of Westminster rising hazily beyond. Far away and blue were the

Surrey hills, and the towers of the Crystal Palace glittered like two

silver rods. The dome of St. Paul’s was dark against the sunrise, and

injured, I saw for the first time, by a huge gaping cavity on its

western side.

And as I looked at this wide expanse of houses and factories and

churches, silent and abandoned; as I thought of the multitudinous hopes

and efforts, the innumerable hosts of lives that had gone to build this

human reef, and of the swift and ruthless destruction that had hung

over it all; when I realised that the shadow had been rolled back, and

that men might still live in the streets, and this dear vast dead city

of mine be once more alive and powerful, I felt a wave of emotion that

was near akin to tears.

The torment was over. Even that day the healing would begin. The

survivors of the people scattered over the country—leaderless, lawless,

foodless, like sheep without a shepherd—the thousands who had fled by

sea, would begin to return; the pulse of life, growing stronger and

stronger, would beat again in the empty streets and pour across the

vacant squares. Whatever destruction was done, the hand of the

destroyer was stayed. All the gaunt wrecks, the blackened skeletons of

houses that stared so dismally at the sunlit grass of the hill, would

presently be echoing with the hammers of the restorers and ringing with

the tapping of their trowels. At the thought I extended my hands

towards the sky and began thanking God. In a year, thought I—in a year.

. . .

With overwhelming force came the thought of myself, of my wife, and the

old life of hope and tender helpfulness that had ceased for ever.

IX.

WRECKAGE.

And now comes the strangest thing in my story. Yet, perhaps, it is not

altogether strange. I remember, clearly and coldly and vividly, all

that I did that day until the time that I stood weeping and praising

God upon the summit of Primrose Hill. And then I forget.

Of the next three days I know nothing. I have learned since that, so

far from my being the first discoverer of the Martian overthrow,

several such wanderers as myself had already discovered this on the

previous night. One man—the first—had gone to St. Martin’s-le-Grand,

and, while I sheltered in the cabmen’s hut, had contrived to telegraph

to Paris. Thence the joyful news had flashed all over the world; a

thousand cities, chilled by ghastly apprehensions, suddenly flashed

into frantic illuminations; they knew of it in Dublin, Edinburgh,

Manchester, Birmingham, at the time when I stood upon the verge of the

pit. Already men, weeping with joy, as I have heard, shouting and

staying their work to shake hands and shout, were making up trains,

even as near as Crewe, to descend upon London. The church bells that

had ceased a fortnight since suddenly caught the news, until all

England was bell-ringing. Men on cycles, lean-faced, unkempt, scorched

along every country lane shouting of unhoped deliverance, shouting to

gaunt, staring figures of despair. And for the food! Across the

Channel, across the Irish Sea, across the Atlantic, corn, bread, and

meat were tearing to our relief. All the shipping in the world seemed

going Londonward in those days. But of all this I have no memory. I

drifted—a demented man. I found myself in a house of kindly people, who

had found me on the third day wandering, weeping, and raving through

the streets of St. John’s Wood. They have told me since that I was

singing some insane doggerel about “The Last Man Left Alive! Hurrah!

The Last Man Left Alive!” Troubled as they were with their own affairs,

these people, whose name, much as I would like to express my gratitude

to them, I may not even give here, nevertheless cumbered themselves

with me, sheltered me, and protected me from myself. Apparently they

had learned something of my story from me during the days of my lapse.

Very gently, when my mind was assured again, did they break to me what

they had learned of the fate of Leatherhead. Two days after I was

imprisoned it had been destroyed, with every soul in it, by a Martian.

He had swept it out of existence, as it seemed, without any

provocation, as a boy might crush an ant hill, in the mere wantonness