softness of the eastward hills.

The line on the London side of Woking station was still undergoing

repair, so I descended at Byfleet station and took the road to Maybury,

past the place where I and the artilleryman had talked to the hussars,

and on by the spot where the Martian had appeared to me in the

thunderstorm. Here, moved by curiosity, I turned aside to find, among a

tangle of red fronds, the warped and broken dog cart with the whitened

bones of the horse scattered and gnawed. For a time I stood regarding

these vestiges. . . .

Then I returned through the pine wood, neck-high with red weed here and

there, to find the landlord of the Spotted Dog had already found

burial, and so came home past the College Arms. A man standing at an

open cottage door greeted me by name as I passed.

I looked at my house with a quick flash of hope that faded immediately.

The door had been forced; it was unfast and was opening slowly as I

approached.

It slammed again. The curtains of my study fluttered out of the open

window from which I and the artilleryman had watched the dawn. No one

had closed it since. The smashed bushes were just as I had left them

nearly four weeks ago. I stumbled into the hall, and the house felt

empty. The stair carpet was ruffled and discoloured where I had

crouched, soaked to the skin from the thunderstorm the night of the

catastrophe. Our muddy footsteps I saw still went up the stairs.

I followed them to my study, and found lying on my writing-table still,

with the selenite paper weight upon it, the sheet of work I had left on

the afternoon of the opening of the cylinder. For a space I stood

reading over my abandoned arguments. It was a paper on the probable

development of Moral Ideas with the development of the civilising

process; and the last sentence was the opening of a prophecy: “In about

two hundred years,” I had written, “we may expect——” The sentence ended

abruptly. I remembered my inability to fix my mind that morning,

scarcely a month gone by, and how I had broken off to get my _Daily

Chronicle_ from the newsboy. I remembered how I went down to the garden

gate as he came along, and how I had listened to his odd story of “Men

from Mars.”

I came down and went into the dining room. There were the mutton and

the bread, both far gone now in decay, and a beer bottle overturned,

just as I and the artilleryman had left them. My home was desolate. I

perceived the folly of the faint hope I had cherished so long. And then

a strange thing occurred. “It is no use,” said a voice. “The house is

deserted. No one has been here these ten days. Do not stay here to

torment yourself. No one escaped but you.”

I was startled. Had I spoken my thought aloud? I turned, and the French

window was open behind me. I made a step to it, and stood looking out.

And there, amazed and afraid, even as I stood amazed and afraid, were

my cousin and my wife—my wife white and tearless. She gave a faint cry.

“I came,” she said. “I knew—knew——”

She put her hand to her throat—swayed. I made a step forward, and

caught her in my arms.

X.

THE EPILOGUE.

I cannot but regret, now that I am concluding my story, how little I am

able to contribute to the discussion of the many debatable questions

which are still unsettled. In one respect I shall certainly provoke

criticism. My particular province is speculative philosophy. My

knowledge of comparative physiology is confined to a book or two, but

it seems to me that Carver’s suggestions as to the reason of the rapid

death of the Martians is so probable as to be regarded almost as a

proven conclusion. I have assumed that in the body of my narrative.

At any rate, in all the bodies of the Martians that were examined after

the war, no bacteria except those already known as terrestrial species

were found. That they did not bury any of their dead, and the reckless

slaughter they perpetrated, point also to an entire ignorance of the