And stole into the couert of the wood,

I measuring his affections by my owne,

Which then most sought, wher most might not be found:

Being one too many by my weary selfe,

Pursued my Honour, not pursuing his

And gladly shunn'd, who gladly fled from me

 Mount. Many a morning hath he there beene seene,

With teares augmenting the fresh mornings deaw,

Adding to cloudes, more cloudes with his deepe sighes,

But all so soone as the all-cheering Sunne,

Should in the farthest East begin to draw

The shadie Curtaines from Auroras bed,

Away from light steales home my heauy Sonne,

And priuate in his Chamber pennes himselfe,

Shuts vp his windowes, lockes faire day-light out,

And makes himselfe an artificiall night:

Blacke and portendous must this humour proue,

Vnlesse good counsell may the cause remoue

 Ben. My Noble Vncle doe you know the cause?

 Moun. I neither know it, nor can learne of him

 Ben. Haue you importun'd him by any meanes?

 Moun. Both by my selfe and many other Friends,

But he his owne affections counseller,

Is to himselfe (I will not say how true)

But to himselfe so secret and so close,

So farre from sounding and discouery,

As is the bud bit with an enuious worme,

Ere he can spread his sweete leaues to the ayre,

Or dedicate his beauty to the same.

Could we but learne from whence his sorrowes grow,

We would as willingly giue cure, as know.

Enter Romeo.

 Ben. See where he comes, so please you step aside,

Ile know his greeuance, or be much denide

 Moun. I would thou wert so happy by thy stay,

To heare true shrift. Come Madam let's away.

Exeunt.

 Ben. Good morrow Cousin

 Rom. Is the day so young?

 Ben. But new strooke nine

 Rom. Aye me, sad houres seeme long:

Was that my Father that went hence so fast?

 Ben. It was: what sadnes lengthens Romeo's houres?

 Ro. Not hauing that, which hauing, makes them short

 Ben. In loue

 Romeo. Out

 Ben. Of loue

 Rom. Out of her fauour where I am in loue

 Ben. Alas that loue so gentle in his view,

Should be so tyrannous and rough in proofe

 Rom. Alas that loue, whose view is muffled still,

Should without eyes, see path-wayes to his will:

Where shall we dine? O me: what fray was heere?

Yet tell me not, for I haue heard it all:

Heere's much to do with hate, but more with loue:

Why then, O brawling loue, O louing hate,

O any thing, of nothing first created:

O heauie lightnesse, serious vanity,

Mishapen Chaos of welseeming formes,

Feather of lead, bright smoake, cold fire, sicke health,

Still waking sleepe, that is not what it is:

This loue feele I, that feele no loue in this.

Doest thou not laugh?

 Ben. No Coze, I rather weepe

 Rom. Good heart, at what?

 Ben. At thy good hearts oppression

 Rom. Why such is loues transgression.

Griefes of mine owne lie heauie in my breast,

Which thou wilt propagate to haue it preast

With more of thine, this loue that thou hast showne,

Doth adde more griefe, to too much of mine owne.

Loue, is a smoake made with the fume of sighes,

Being purg'd, a fire sparkling in Louers eyes,

Being vext, a Sea nourisht with louing teares,