villas burning on the Woking border. There were lights in all the

houses on the common side of the three villages, and the people there

kept awake till dawn.

A curious crowd lingered restlessly, people coming and going but the

crowd remaining, both on the Chobham and Horsell bridges. One or two

adventurous souls, it was afterwards found, went into the darkness and

crawled quite near the Martians; but they never returned, for now and

again a light-ray, like the beam of a warship’s searchlight swept the

common, and the Heat-Ray was ready to follow. Save for such, that big

area of common was silent and desolate, and the charred bodies lay

about on it all night under the stars, and all the next day. A noise of

hammering from the pit was heard by many people.

So you have the state of things on Friday night. In the centre,

sticking into the skin of our old planet Earth like a poisoned dart,

was this cylinder. But the poison was scarcely working yet. Around it

was a patch of silent common, smouldering in places, and with a few

dark, dimly seen objects lying in contorted attitudes here and there.

Here and there was a burning bush or tree. Beyond was a fringe of

excitement, and farther than that fringe the inflammation had not crept

as yet. In the rest of the world the stream of life still flowed as it

had flowed for immemorial years. The fever of war that would presently

clog vein and artery, deaden nerve and destroy brain, had still to

develop.

All night long the Martians were hammering and stirring, sleepless,

indefatigable, at work upon the machines they were making ready, and

ever and again a puff of greenish-white smoke whirled up to the starlit

sky.

About eleven a company of soldiers came through Horsell, and deployed

along the edge of the common to form a cordon. Later a second company

marched through Chobham to deploy on the north side of the common.

Several officers from the Inkerman barracks had been on the common

earlier in the day, and one, Major Eden, was reported to be missing.

The colonel of the regiment came to the Chobham bridge and was busy

questioning the crowd at midnight. The military authorities were

certainly alive to the seriousness of the business. About eleven, the

next morning’s papers were able to say, a squadron of hussars, two

Maxims, and about four hundred men of the Cardigan regiment started

from Aldershot.

A few seconds after midnight the crowd in the Chertsey road, Woking,

saw a star fall from heaven into the pine woods to the northwest. It

had a greenish colour, and caused a silent brightness like summer

lightning. This was the second cylinder.

IX.

THE FIGHTING BEGINS.

Saturday lives in my memory as a day of suspense. It was a day of

lassitude too, hot and close, with, I am told, a rapidly fluctuating

barometer. I had slept but little, though my wife had succeeded in

sleeping, and I rose early. I went into my garden before breakfast and

stood listening, but towards the common there was nothing stirring but

a lark.

The milkman came as usual. I heard the rattle of his chariot and I went

round to the side gate to ask the latest news. He told me that during

the night the Martians had been surrounded by troops, and that guns

were expected. Then—a familiar, reassuring note—I heard a train running

towards Woking.

“They aren’t to be killed,” said the milkman, “if that can possibly be

avoided.”

I saw my neighbour gardening, chatted with him for a time, and then

strolled in to breakfast. It was a most unexceptional morning. My

neighbour was of opinion that the troops would be able to capture or to

destroy the Martians during the day.

“It’s a pity they make themselves so unapproachable,” he said. “It

would be curious to know how they live on another planet; we might

learn a thing or two.”

He came up to the fence and extended a handful of strawberries, for his

gardening was as generous as it was enthusiastic. At the same time he

told me of the burning of the pine woods about the Byfleet Golf Links.

“They say,” said he, “that there’s another of those blessed things

fallen there—number two. But one’s enough, surely. This lot’ll cost the

insurance people a pretty penny before everything’s settled.” He

laughed with an air of the greatest good humour as he said this. The