when pestilence stalked through the town. In all seasons of calamity,

indeed, whether general or of individuals, the outcast of society at

once found her place. She came, not as a guest, but as a rightful

inmate, into the household that was darkened by trouble; as if its

gloomy twilight were a medium in which she was entitled to hold

intercourse with her fellow-creatures. There glimmered the embroidered

letter, with comfort in its unearthly ray. Elsewhere the token of sin,

it was the taper of the sick-chamber. It had even thrown its gleam, in

the sufferer’s hard extremity, across the verge of time. It had shown

him where to set his foot, while the light of earth was fast becoming

dim, and ere the light of futurity could reach him. In such

emergencies, Hester’s nature showed itself warm and rich; a

well-spring of human tenderness, unfailing to every real demand, and

inexhaustible by the largest. Her breast, with its badge of shame, was

but the softer pillow for the head that needed one. She was

self-ordained a Sister of Mercy; or, we may rather say, the world’s

heavy hand had so ordained her, when neither the world nor she looked

forward to this result. The letter was the symbol of her calling. Such

helpfulness was found in her,—so much power to do, and power to

sympathize,—that many people refused to interpret the scarlet A by

its original signification. They said that it meant Able; so strong

was Hester Prynne, with a woman’s strength.

It was only the darkened house that could contain her. When sunshine

came again, she was not there. Her shadow had faded across the

threshold. The helpful inmate had departed, without one backward

glance to gather up the meed of gratitude, if any were in the hearts

of those whom she had served so zealously. Meeting them in the

street, she never raised her head to receive their greeting. If they

were resolute to accost her, she laid her finger on the scarlet

letter, and passed on. This might be pride, but was so like humility,

that it produced all the softening influence of the latter quality on

the public mind. The public is despotic in its temper; it is capable

of denying common justice, when too strenuously demanded as a right;

but quite as frequently it awards more than justice, when the appeal

is made, as despots love to have it made, entirely to its generosity.

Interpreting Hester Prynne’s deportment as an appeal of this nature,

society was inclined to show its former victim a more benign

countenance than she cared to be favored with, or, perchance, than she

deserved.

The rulers, and the wise and learned men of the community, were longer

in acknowledging the influence of Hester’s good qualities than the

people. The prejudices which they shared in common with the latter

were fortified in themselves by an iron framework of reasoning, that

made it a far tougher labor to expel them. Day by day, nevertheless,

their sour and rigid wrinkles were relaxing into something which, in

the due course of years, might grow to be an expression of almost

benevolence. Thus it was with the men of rank, on whom their eminent

position imposed the guardianship of the public morals. Individuals in

private life, meanwhile, had quite forgiven Hester Prynne for her

frailty; nay, more, they had begun to look upon the scarlet letter as

the token, not of that one sin, for which she had borne so long and

dreary a penance, but of her many good deeds since. “Do you see that

woman with the embroidered badge?” they would say to strangers. “It is

our Hester,—the town’s own Hester, who is so kind to the poor, so

helpful to the sick, so comfortable to the afflicted!” Then, it is

true, the propensity of human nature to tell the very worst of itself,

when embodied in the person of another, would constrain them to

whisper the black scandal of bygone years. It was none the less a

fact, however, that, in the eyes of the very men who spoke thus, the

scarlet letter had the effect of the cross on a nun’s bosom. It

imparted to the wearer a kind of sacredness, which enabled her to walk

securely amid all peril. Had she fallen among thieves, it would have

kept her safe. It was reported, and believed by many, that an Indian

had drawn his arrow against the badge, and that the missile struck it,

but fell harmless to the ground.

The effect of the symbol—or, rather, of the position in respect to

society that was indicated by it—on the mind of Hester Prynne

herself, was powerful and peculiar. All the light and graceful foliage

of her character had been withered up by this red-hot brand, and had