pleasant to Mrs. Harker, any more than it was to me, so I joined in:--

“How did you know I wanted to marry any one?” His reply was simply

contemptuous, given in a pause in which he turned his eyes from Mrs.

Harker to me, instantly turning them back again:--

“What an asinine question!”

“I don’t see that at all, Mr. Renfield,” said Mrs. Harker, at once

championing me. He replied to her with as much courtesy and respect as

he had shown contempt to me:--

“You will, of course, understand, Mrs. Harker, that when a man is so

loved and honoured as our host is, everything regarding him is of

interest in our little community. Dr. Seward is loved not only by his

household and his friends, but even by his patients, who, being some of

them hardly in mental equilibrium, are apt to distort causes and

effects. Since I myself have been an inmate of a lunatic asylum, I

cannot but notice that the sophistic tendencies of some of its inmates

lean towards the errors of _non causa_ and _ignoratio elenchi_.” I

positively opened my eyes at this new development. Here was my own pet

lunatic--the most pronounced of his type that I had ever met

with--talking elemental philosophy, and with the manner of a polished

gentleman. I wonder if it was Mrs. Harker’s presence which had touched

some chord in his memory. If this new phase was spontaneous, or in any

way due to her unconscious influence, she must have some rare gift or

power.

We continued to talk for some time; and, seeing that he was seemingly

quite reasonable, she ventured, looking at me questioningly as she

began, to lead him to his favourite topic. I was again astonished, for

he addressed himself to the question with the impartiality of the

completest sanity; he even took himself as an example when he mentioned

certain things.

“Why, I myself am an instance of a man who had a strange belief. Indeed,

it was no wonder that my friends were alarmed, and insisted on my being

put under control. I used to fancy that life was a positive and

perpetual entity, and that by consuming a multitude of live things, no

matter how low in the scale of creation, one might indefinitely prolong

life. At times I held the belief so strongly that I actually tried to

take human life. The doctor here will bear me out that on one occasion I

tried to kill him for the purpose of strengthening my vital powers by

the assimilation with my own body of his life through the medium of his

blood--relying, of course, upon the Scriptural phrase, ‘For the blood is

the life.’ Though, indeed, the vendor of a certain nostrum has

vulgarised the truism to the very point of contempt. Isn’t that true,

doctor?” I nodded assent, for I was so amazed that I hardly knew what to

either think or say; it was hard to imagine that I had seen him eat up

his spiders and flies not five minutes before. Looking at my watch, I

saw that I should go to the station to meet Van Helsing, so I told Mrs.

Harker that it was time to leave. She came at once, after saying

pleasantly to Mr. Renfield: “Good-bye, and I hope I may see you often,

under auspices pleasanter to yourself,” to which, to my astonishment, he

replied:--

“Good-bye, my dear. I pray God I may never see your sweet face again.

May He bless and keep you!”

When I went to the station to meet Van Helsing I left the boys behind

me. Poor Art seemed more cheerful than he has been since Lucy first took

ill, and Quincey is more like his own bright self than he has been for

many a long day.

Van Helsing stepped from the carriage with the eager nimbleness of a

boy. He saw me at once, and rushed up to me, saying:--

“Ah, friend John, how goes all? Well? So! I have been busy, for I come

here to stay if need be. All affairs are settled with me, and I have

much to tell. Madam Mina is with you? Yes. And her so fine husband? And

Arthur and my friend Quincey, they are with you, too? Good!”

As I drove to the house I told him of what had passed, and of how my own

diary had come to be of some use through Mrs. Harker’s suggestion; at

which the Professor interrupted me:--

“Ah, that wonderful Madam Mina! She has man’s brain--a brain that a man

should have were he much gifted--and a woman’s heart. The good God

fashioned her for a purpose, believe me, when He made that so good

combination. Friend John, up to now fortune has made that woman of help

to us; after to-night she must not have to do with this so terrible