loss how farther to proceed. It was a theory in some quarters that Mr.

Nestor was perfectly safe, but that he was out of his mind, and was

either wandering around, not knowing who he was, or was, in this

condition, detained somewhere, the persons having him in charge not

realizing that he was the missing man so widely sought.

This belief was a relief to Mrs. Nestor and Mary in many ways for it

prevented them from giving way to the fear that Mr. Nestor was dead.

That he was alive was Tom Swift's firm opinion, and he was doing all he

could to prove it.

It was not until the day after the visit of Mr. Gale that Tom, having

concluded some intricate calculations about the strength of cylinder

valves, uttered an exclamation.

"I wonder if he could have meant that?" cried the young inventor. "I

wonder if he could have meant that? I must find out at once! Queer I

didn't think of that before!"

He put in a long distance call to New York, asking to speak to Mr.

Gale. But when, eventually, he was connected with the office of the

Universal Flying Machine Company he was told that Mr. Gale and Mr. Ware

had sailed for France that day, going over as government

representatives to investigate aeroplane motors. Gale's visit to Tom

had been just previous to taking the boat, it was said.

"This is tough luck!" mused Tom, his suspicions doubly aroused now. "I

can't let this rest here! I've got to get after it! As soon as I make

this final test, and invite Uncle Sam's experts out to see how my

noiseless motor works, I'll get after Gale and Ware if I have to follow

them to the battlefields of France! I wonder if it was that he was

hinting at all the while! I begin to believe it was!"

Tom Swift had decided on another flight for his new craft before he

would let the government experts see it.

"Silent Sam must do his very best work for Uncle Sam before I turn him

over," said the young inventor.

"And after this flight I'll offer the machine to the government, and

then devote all my time to finding Mr. Nestor," said Tom. "I'd do it

now, but private matters, however deeply they affect us, must be put

aside to help win the war. But this will end my inventive work until

after Mr. Nestor is found--if he's alive."

Preparations for the test flight went on apace, and one afternoon Tom

and Jackson took their places in the big, new aeroplane. He no longer

feared daylight crowds in case of an accident. They made a good start,

and the motor was so quiet that as Tom passed over his own plant the

men working in the yard, who did not know of the flight, did not look

up to see what was going on. They could not hear the engine.

"I think we've got everything just as we want it, Jackson," said Tom,

much pleased.

"I believe you," answered the mechanician. "It couldn't be better. Now

if--"

And at that moment there came a loud explosion, and Silent Sam began

drifting rapidly toward the earth, as falls a bird with a broken wing.

CHAPTER XX

QUEER MARKS

"What happened?" cried Jackson to Tom, as he leaned forward in his seat

which was in the rear of the young inventor's.

"Don't know, exactly," was the answer, as Tom quickly shifted the

rudders to correct the slanting fall of his craft. "Sounded as though

there was a tremendous back-fire, or else the muffler blew up. The

engine is dead."

"Can you take her down safely?"

"Oh, yes, I guess so. She's a bit out of control, but the stabilizer

will keep her on a level keel. Good thing we installed it."

"You're right!" said Jackson.

Now they were falling earthward with great rapidity, but, thanks to the

gyroscope stabilizer, the "side-slipping," than which there is no

motion more dreaded by an aviator, had nearly ceased. The craft was

volplaning down as it ought, and Tom had it under as perfect control as

was possible under the circumstances.

"We'll get down all right if something else doesn't happen," he said to

Jackson, with grim humor.

"Well, let's hope that it won't," said the mechanic. "We're a good

distance up yet."

They were, as a matter of fact, for the explosion, or whatever had

happened to the craft, had occurred at a height of over two miles, and