racing for home, and rise and dip in the ground swell as they sweep into

the harbour, bending to the scuppers. Here comes old Mr. Swales. He is

making straight for me, and I can see, by the way he lifts his hat, that

he wants to talk....

I have been quite touched by the change in the poor old man. When he sat

down beside me, he said in a very gentle way:--

“I want to say something to you, miss.” I could see he was not at ease,

so I took his poor old wrinkled hand in mine and asked him to speak

fully; so he said, leaving his hand in mine:--

“I’m afraid, my deary, that I must have shocked you by all the wicked

things I’ve been sayin’ about the dead, and such like, for weeks past;

but I didn’t mean them, and I want ye to remember that when I’m gone. We

aud folks that be daffled, and with one foot abaft the krok-hooal, don’t

altogether like to think of it, and we don’t want to feel scart of it;

an’ that’s why I’ve took to makin’ light of it, so that I’d cheer up my

own heart a bit. But, Lord love ye, miss, I ain’t afraid of dyin’, not a

bit; only I don’t want to die if I can help it. My time must be nigh at

hand now, for I be aud, and a hundred years is too much for any man to

expect; and I’m so nigh it that the Aud Man is already whettin’ his

scythe. Ye see, I can’t get out o’ the habit of caffin’ about it all at

once; the chafts will wag as they be used to. Some day soon the Angel of

Death will sound his trumpet for me. But don’t ye dooal an’ greet, my

deary!”--for he saw that I was crying--“if he should come this very

night I’d not refuse to answer his call. For life be, after all, only a

waitin’ for somethin’ else than what we’re doin’; and death be all that

we can rightly depend on. But I’m content, for it’s comin’ to me, my

deary, and comin’ quick. It may be comin’ while we be lookin’ and

wonderin’. Maybe it’s in that wind out over the sea that’s bringin’ with

it loss and wreck, and sore distress, and sad hearts. Look! look!” he

cried suddenly. “There’s something in that wind and in the hoast beyont

that sounds, and looks, and tastes, and smells like death. It’s in the

air; I feel it comin’. Lord, make me answer cheerful when my call

comes!” He held up his arms devoutly, and raised his hat. His mouth

moved as though he were praying. After a few minutes’ silence, he got

up, shook hands with me, and blessed me, and said good-bye, and hobbled

off. It all touched me, and upset me very much.

I was glad when the coastguard came along, with his spy-glass under his

arm. He stopped to talk with me, as he always does, but all the time

kept looking at a strange ship.

“I can’t make her out,” he said; “she’s a Russian, by the look of her;

but she’s knocking about in the queerest way. She doesn’t know her mind

a bit; she seems to see the storm coming, but can’t decide whether to

run up north in the open, or to put in here. Look there again! She is

steered mighty strangely, for she doesn’t mind the hand on the wheel;

changes about with every puff of wind. We’ll hear more of her before

this time to-morrow.”

CHAPTER VII

CUTTING FROM “THE DAILYGRAPH,” 8 AUGUST

(_Pasted in Mina Murray’s Journal._)

From a Correspondent.

_Whitby_.

One of the greatest and suddenest storms on record has just been

experienced here, with results both strange and unique. The weather had

been somewhat sultry, but not to any degree uncommon in the month of

August. Saturday evening was as fine as was ever known, and the great

body of holiday-makers laid out yesterday for visits to Mulgrave Woods,

Robin Hood’s Bay, Rig Mill, Runswick, Staithes, and the various trips in

the neighbourhood of Whitby. The steamers _Emma_ and _Scarborough_ made

trips up and down the coast, and there was an unusual amount of

“tripping” both to and from Whitby. The day was unusually fine till the

afternoon, when some of the gossips who frequent the East Cliff

churchyard, and from that commanding eminence watch the wide sweep of

sea visible to the north and east, called attention to a sudden show of

“mares’-tails” high in the sky to the north-west. The wind was then

blowing from the south-west in the mild degree which in barometrical

language is ranked “No. 2: light breeze.” The coastguard on duty at once

made report, and one old fisherman, who for more than half a century has