Of limping Winter treads, euen such delight

Among fresh Fennell buds shall you this night

Inherit at my house: heare all, all see:

And like her most, whose merit most shall be:

Which one more veiw, of many, mine being one,

May stand in number, though in reckning none.

Come, goe with me: goe sirrah trudge about,

Through faire Verona, find those persons out,

Whose names are written there, and to them say,

My house and welcome, on their pleasure stay.

Enter.

 Ser. Find them out whose names are written. Heere it

is written, that the Shoo-maker should meddle with his

Yard, and the Tayler with his Last, the Fisher with his

Pensill, and the Painter with his Nets. But I am sent to

find those persons whose names are writ, & can neuer find

what names the writing person hath here writ (I must to

the learned) in good time.

Enter Benuolio, and Romeo.

 Ben. Tut man, one fire burnes out anothers burning,

One paine is lesned by anothers anguish:

Turne giddie, and be holpe by backward turning:

One desparate greefe, cures with anothers languish:

Take thou some new infection to the eye,

And the rank poyson of the old wil die

 Rom. Your Plantan leafe is excellent for that

 Ben. For what I pray thee?

 Rom. For your broken shin

 Ben. Why Romeo art thou mad?

 Rom. Not mad, but bound more then a mad man is:

Shut vp in prison, kept without my foode,

Whipt and tormented: and Godden good fellow,

 Ser. Godgigoden, I pray sir can you read?

 Rom. I mine owne fortune in my miserie

 Ser. Perhaps you haue learn'd it without booke:

But I pray can you read any thing you see?

 Rom. I, if I know the Letters and the Language

 Ser. Ye say honestly, rest you merry

 Rom. Stay fellow, I can read.

He reades the Letter.

Seigneur Martino, and his wife and daughter: County Anselme

and his beautious sisters: the Lady widdow of Vtruuio,

Seigneur Placentio, and his louely Neeces: Mercutio and

his brother Valentine: mine vncle Capulet his wife and daughters:

my faire Neece Rosaline, Liuia, Seigneur Valentio, & his

Cosen Tybalt: Lucio and the liuely Helena.

A faire assembly, whither should they come?

 Ser. Vp

 Rom. Whither? to supper?

 Ser. To our house

 Rom. Whose house?

 Ser. My Maisters

 Rom. Indeed I should haue askt you that before

 Ser. Now Ile tell you without asking. My maister is

the great rich Capulet, and if you be not of the house of

Mountagues I pray come and crush a cup of wine. Rest

you merry.

Enter.

 Ben. At this same auncient Feast of Capulets

Sups the faire Rosaline, whom thou so loues:

With all the admired Beauties of Verona,

Go thither and with vnattainted eye,

Compare her face with some that I shall show,

And I will make thee thinke thy Swan a Crow

 Rom. When the deuout religion of mine eye

Maintaines such falshood, then turne teares to fire:

And these who often drown'd could neuer die,

Transparent Heretiques be burnt for liers.

One fairer then my loue: the all-seeing Sun

Nere saw her match, since first the world begun

 Ben. Tut, you saw her faire, none else being by,