the moment that I stepped across the threshold of the Old Manse. The

same torpor, as regarded the capacity for intellectual effort,

accompanied me home, and weighed upon me in the chamber which I most

absurdly termed my study. Nor did it quit me, when, late at night, I

sat in the deserted parlor, lighted only by the glimmering coal-fire

and the moon, striving to picture forth imaginary scenes, which, the

next day, might flow out on the brightening page in many-hued

description.

If the imaginative faculty refused to act at such an hour, it might

well be deemed a hopeless case. Moonlight, in a familiar room, falling

so white upon the carpet, and showing all its figures so

distinctly,—making every object so minutely visible, yet so unlike a

morning or noontide visibility,—is a medium the most suitable for a

romance-writer to get acquainted with his illusive guests. There is

the little domestic scenery of the well-known apartment; the chairs,

with each its separate individuality; the centre-table, sustaining a

work-basket, a volume or two, and an extinguished lamp; the sofa; the

bookcase; the picture on the wall;—all these details, so completely

seen, are so spiritualized by the unusual light, that they seem to

lose their actual substance, and become things of intellect. Nothing

is too small or too trifling to undergo this change, and acquire

dignity thereby. A child’s shoe; the doll, seated in her little wicker

carriage; the hobby-horse;—whatever, in a word, has been used or

played with, during the day, is now invested with a quality of

strangeness and remoteness, though still almost as vividly present as

by daylight. Thus, therefore, the floor of our familiar room has

become a neutral territory, somewhere between the real world and

fairy-land, where the Actual and the Imaginary may meet, and each

imbue itself with the nature of the other. Ghosts might enter here,

without affrighting us. It would be too much in keeping with the scene

to excite surprise, were we to look about us and discover a form

beloved, but gone hence, now sitting quietly in a streak of this magic

moonshine, with an aspect that would make us doubt whether it had

returned from afar, or had never once stirred from our fireside.

The somewhat dim coal-fire has an essential influence in producing the

effect which I would describe. It throws its unobtrusive tinge

throughout the room, with a faint ruddiness upon the walls and

ceiling, and a reflected gleam from the polish of the furniture. This

warmer light mingles itself with the cold spirituality of the

moonbeams, and communicates, as it were, a heart and sensibilities of

human tenderness to the forms which fancy summons up. It converts them

from snow-images into men and women. Glancing at the looking-glass, we

behold—deep within its haunted verge—the smouldering glow of the

half-extinguished anthracite, the white moonbeams on the floor, and a

repetition of all the gleam and shadow of the picture, with one remove

further from the actual, and nearer to the imaginative. Then, at such

an hour, and with this scene before him, if a man, sitting all alone,

cannot dream strange things, and make them look like truth, he need

never try to write romances.

But, for myself, during the whole of my Custom-House experience,

moonlight and sunshine, and the glow of firelight, were just alike in

my regard; and neither of them was of one whit more avail than the

twinkle of a tallow-candle. An entire class of susceptibilities, and a

gift connected with them,—of no great richness or value, but the best

I had,—was gone from me.

It is my belief, however, that, had I attempted a different order of

composition, my faculties would not have been found so pointless and

inefficacious. I might, for instance, have contented myself with

writing out the narratives of a veteran shipmaster, one of the

Inspectors, whom I should be most ungrateful not to mention, since

scarcely a day passed that he did not stir me to laughter and

admiration by his marvellous gifts as a story-teller. Could I have

preserved the picturesque force of his style, and the humorous

coloring which nature taught him how to throw over his descriptions,

the result, I honestly believe, would have been something new in

literature. Or I might readily have found a more serious task. It was

a folly, with the materiality of this daily life pressing so

intrusively upon me, to attempt to fling myself back into another age;

or to insist on creating the semblance of a world out of airy matter,

when, at every moment, the impalpable beauty of my soap-bubble was

broken by the rude contact of some actual circumstance. The wiser

effort would have been, to diffuse thought and imagination through

the opaque substance of to-day, and thus to make it a bright

transparency; to spiritualize the burden that began to weigh so

heavily; to seek, resolutely, the true and indestructible value that

lay hidden in the petty and wearisome incidents, and ordinary

characters, with which I was now conversant. The fault was mine. The