added, “I shall insist on their giving one also. I shall tell Colonel

Forster it will be quite a shame if he does not.”

Mrs. Bennet and her daughters then departed, and Elizabeth returned

instantly to Jane, leaving her own and her relations’ behaviour to the

remarks of the two ladies and Mr. Darcy; the latter of whom, however,

could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of _her_, in spite of

all Miss Bingley’s witticisms on _fine eyes_.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER X.

[Illustration]

The day passed much as the day before had done. Mrs. Hurst and Miss

Bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid, who

continued, though slowly, to mend; and, in the evening, Elizabeth joined

their party in the drawing-room. The loo table, however, did not appear.

Mr. Darcy was writing, and Miss Bingley, seated near him, was watching

the progress of his letter, and repeatedly calling off his attention by

messages to his sister. Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley were at piquet, and

Mrs. Hurst was observing their game.

Elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in

attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion. The perpetual

commendations of the lady either on his hand-writing, or on the evenness

of his lines, or on the length of his letter, with the perfect unconcern

with which her praises were received, formed a curious dialogue, and was

exactly in unison with her opinion of each.

“How delighted Miss Darcy will be to receive such a letter!”

He made no answer.

“You write uncommonly fast.”

“You are mistaken. I write rather slowly.”

“How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of a

year! Letters of business, too! How odious I should think them!”

“It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of to yours.”

“Pray tell your sister that I long to see her.”

“I have already told her so once, by your desire.”

“I am afraid you do not like your pen. Let me mend it for you. I mend

pens remarkably well.”

“Thank you--but I always mend my own.”

“How can you contrive to write so even?”

He was silent.

“Tell your sister I am delighted to hear of her improvement on the harp,

and pray let her know that I am quite in raptures with her beautiful

little design for a table, and I think it infinitely superior to Miss

Grantley’s.”

“Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again? At

present I have not room to do them justice.”

“Oh, it is of no consequence. I shall see her in January. But do you

always write such charming long letters to her, Mr. Darcy?”

“They are generally long; but whether always charming, it is not for me

to determine.”

“It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter with

ease cannot write ill.”

“That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Caroline,” cried her

brother, “because he does _not_ write with ease. He studies too much

for words of four syllables. Do not you, Darcy?”

“My style of writing is very different from yours.”

“Oh,” cried Miss Bingley, “Charles writes in the most careless way

imaginable. He leaves out half his words, and blots the rest.”

“My ideas flow so rapidly that I have not time to express them; by which

means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my correspondents.”

“Your humility, Mr. Bingley,” said Elizabeth, “must disarm reproof.”

“Nothing is more deceitful,” said Darcy, “than the appearance of

humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an

indirect boast.”

“And which of the two do you call _my_ little recent piece of modesty?”

“The indirect boast; for you are really proud of your defects in

writing, because you consider them as proceeding from a rapidity of

thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not estimable, you

think at least highly interesting. The power of doing anything with

quickness is always much prized by the possessor, and often without any

attention to the imperfection of the performance. When you told Mrs.

Bennet this morning, that if you ever resolved on quitting Netherfield

you should be gone in five minutes, you meant it to be a sort of

panegyric, of compliment to yourself; and yet what is there so very

laudable in a precipitance which must leave very necessary business

undone, and can be of no real advantage to yourself or anyone else?”

“Nay,” cried Bingley, “this is too much, to remember at night all the

foolish things that were said in the morning. And yet, upon my honour, I

believed what I said of myself to be true, and I believe it at this

moment. At least, therefore, I did not assume the character of needless