 hope at least it will not afford you any displeasure. Lydia came to

 us, and Wickham had constant admission to the house. _He_ was

 exactly what he had been when I knew him in Hertfordshire; but I

 would not tell you how little I was satisfied with _her_ behaviour

 while she stayed with us, if I had not perceived, by Jane’s letter

 last Wednesday, that her conduct on coming home was exactly of a

 piece with it, and therefore what I now tell you can give you no

 fresh pain. I talked to her repeatedly in the most serious manner,

 representing to her the wickedness of what she had done, and all

 the unhappiness she had brought on her family. If she heard me, it

 was by good luck, for I am sure she did not listen. I was sometimes

 quite provoked; but then I recollected my dear Elizabeth and Jane,

 and for their sakes had patience with her. Mr. Darcy was punctual

 in his return, and, as Lydia informed you, attended the wedding. He

 dined with us the next day, and was to leave town again on

 Wednesday or Thursday. Will you be very angry with me, my dear

 Lizzy, if I take this opportunity of saying (what I was never bold

 enough to say before) how much I like him? His behaviour to us has,

 in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire.

 His understanding and opinions all please me; he wants nothing but

 a little more liveliness, and _that_, if he marry _prudently_, his

 wife may teach him. I thought him very sly; he hardly ever

 mentioned your name. But slyness seems the fashion. Pray forgive

 me, if I have been very presuming, or at least do not punish me so

 far as to exclude me from P. I shall never be quite happy till I

 have been all round the park. A low phaeton with a nice little pair

 of ponies would be the very thing. But I must write no more. The

 children have been wanting me this half hour.

“Yours, very sincerely,

“M. GARDINER.”

The contents of this letter threw Elizabeth into a flutter of spirits,

in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the

greatest share. The vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had

produced, of what Mr. Darcy might have been doing to forward her

sister’s match--which she had feared to encourage, as an exertion of

goodness too great to be probable, and at the same time dreaded to be

just, from the pain of obligation--were proved beyond their greatest

extent to be true! He had followed them purposely to town, he had taken

on himself all the trouble and mortification attendant on such a

research; in which supplication had been necessary to a woman whom he

must abominate and despise, and where he was reduced to meet, frequently

meet, reason with, persuade, and finally bribe the man whom he always

most wished to avoid, and whose very name it was punishment to him to

pronounce. He had done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard

nor esteem. Her heart did whisper that he had done it for her. But it

was a hope shortly checked by other considerations; and she soon felt

that even her vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on his

affection for her, for a woman who had already refused him, as able to

overcome a sentiment so natural as abhorrence against relationship with

Wickham. Brother-in-law of Wickham! Every kind of pride must revolt from

the connection. He had, to be sure, done much. She was ashamed to think

how much. But he had given a reason for his interference, which asked no

extraordinary stretch of belief. It was reasonable that he should feel

he had been wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising

it; and though she would not place herself as his principal inducement,

she could perhaps believe, that remaining partiality for her might

assist his endeavours in a cause where her peace of mind must be

materially concerned. It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that

they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a

return. They owed the restoration of Lydia, her character, everything to

him. Oh, how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious sensation she

had ever encouraged, every saucy speech she had ever directed towards

him! For herself she was humbled; but she was proud of him,--proud that

in a cause of compassion and honour he had been able to get the better

of himself. She read over her aunt’s commendation of him again and