weak, and those who go weak with a lot of complicated thinking, always

make for a sort of do-nothing religion, very pious and superior, and

submit to persecution and the will of the Lord. Very likely you’ve seen

the same thing. It’s energy in a gale of funk, and turned clean inside

out. These cages will be full of psalms and hymns and piety. And those

of a less simple sort will work in a bit of—what is it?—eroticism.”

He paused.

“Very likely these Martians will make pets of some of them; train them

to do tricks—who knows?—get sentimental over the pet boy who grew up

and had to be killed. And some, maybe, they will train to hunt us.”

“No,” I cried, “that’s impossible! No human being——”

“What’s the good of going on with such lies?” said the artilleryman.

“There’s men who’d do it cheerful. What nonsense to pretend there

isn’t!”

And I succumbed to his conviction.

“If they come after me,” he said; “Lord, if they come after me!” and

subsided into a grim meditation.

I sat contemplating these things. I could find nothing to bring against

this man’s reasoning. In the days before the invasion no one would have

questioned my intellectual superiority to his—I, a professed and

recognised writer on philosophical themes, and he, a common soldier;

and yet he had already formulated a situation that I had scarcely

realised.

“What are you doing?” I said presently. “What plans have you made?”

He hesitated.

“Well, it’s like this,” he said. “What have we to do? We have to invent

a sort of life where men can live and breed, and be sufficiently secure

to bring the children up. Yes—wait a bit, and I’ll make it clearer what

I think ought to be done. The tame ones will go like all tame beasts;

in a few generations they’ll be big, beautiful, rich-blooded,

stupid—rubbish! The risk is that we who keep wild will go

savage—degenerate into a sort of big, savage rat. . . . You see, how I

mean to live is underground. I’ve been thinking about the drains. Of

course those who don’t know drains think horrible things; but under

this London are miles and miles—hundreds of miles—and a few days rain

and London empty will leave them sweet and clean. The main drains are

big enough and airy enough for anyone. Then there’s cellars, vaults,

stores, from which bolting passages may be made to the drains. And the

railway tunnels and subways. Eh? You begin to see? And we form a

band—able-bodied, clean-minded men. We’re not going to pick up any

rubbish that drifts in. Weaklings go out again.”

“As you meant me to go?”

“Well—I parleyed, didn’t I?”

“We won’t quarrel about that. Go on.”

“Those who stop obey orders. Able-bodied, clean-minded women we want

also—mothers and teachers. No lackadaisical ladies—no blasted rolling

eyes. We can’t have any weak or silly. Life is real again, and the

useless and cumbersome and mischievous have to die. They ought to die.

They ought to be willing to die. It’s a sort of disloyalty, after all,

to live and taint the race. And they can’t be happy. Moreover, dying’s

none so dreadful; it’s the funking makes it bad. And in all those

places we shall gather. Our district will be London. And we may even be

able to keep a watch, and run about in the open when the Martians keep

away. Play cricket, perhaps. That’s how we shall save the race. Eh?