right over his heart. On that spot, in very truth, there was, and

there had long been, the gnawing and poisonous tooth of bodily pain.

Without any effort of his will, or power to restrain himself, he

shrieked aloud; an outcry that went pealing through the night, and

was beaten back from one house to another, and reverberated from the

hills in the background; as if a company of devils, detecting so much

misery and terror in it, had made a plaything of the sound, and were

bandying it to and fro.

“It is done!” muttered the minister, covering his face with his hands.

“The whole town will awake, and hurry forth, and find me here!”

But it was not so. The shriek had perhaps sounded with a far greater

power, to his own startled ears, than it actually possessed. The town

did not awake; or, if it did, the drowsy slumberers mistook the cry

either for something frightful in a dream, or for the noise of

witches; whose voices, at that period, were often heard to pass over

the settlements or lonely cottages, as they rode with Satan through

the air. The clergyman, therefore, hearing no symptoms of disturbance,

uncovered his eyes and looked about him. At one of the chamber-windows

of Governor Bellingham’s mansion, which stood at some distance, on the

line of another street, he beheld the appearance of the old magistrate

himself, with a lamp in his hand, a white night-cap on his head, and a

long white gown enveloping his figure. He looked like a ghost, evoked

unseasonably from the grave. The cry had evidently startled him. At

another window of the same house, moreover, appeared old Mistress

Hibbins, the Governor’s sister, also with a lamp, which, even thus far

off, revealed the expression of her sour and discontented face. She

thrust forth her head from the lattice, and looked anxiously upward.

Beyond the shadow of a doubt, this venerable witch-lady had heard Mr.

Dimmesdale’s outcry, and interpreted it, with its multitudinous echoes

and reverberations, as the clamor of the fiends and night-hags, with

whom she was well known to make excursions into the forest.

Detecting the gleam of Governor Bellingham’s lamp, the old lady

quickly extinguished her own, and vanished. Possibly, she went up

among the clouds. The minister saw nothing further of her motions. The

magistrate, after a wary observation of the darkness,—into which,

nevertheless, he could see but little further than he might into a

mill-stone,—retired from the window.

The minister grew comparatively calm. His eyes, however, were soon

greeted by a little, glimmering light, which, at first a long way off,

was approaching up the street. It threw a gleam of recognition on here

a post, and there a garden-fence, and here a latticed window-pane, and

there a pump, with its full trough of water, and here, again, an

arched door of oak, with an iron knocker, and a rough log for the

doorstep. The Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale noted all these minute

particulars, even while firmly convinced that the doom of his

existence was stealing onward, in the footsteps which he now heard;

and that the gleam of the lantern would fall upon him, in a few

moments more, and reveal his long-hidden secret. As the light drew

nearer, he beheld, within its illuminated circle, his brother

clergyman,—or, to speak more accurately, his professional father, as

well as highly valued friend,—the Reverend Mr. Wilson; who, as Mr.

Dimmesdale now conjectured, had been praying at the bedside of some

dying man. And so he had. The good old minister came freshly from the

death-chamber of Governor Winthrop, who had passed from earth to

heaven within that very hour. And now, surrounded, like the saint-like

personages of olden times, with a radiant halo, that glorified him

amid this gloomy night of sin,—as if the departed Governor had left

him an inheritance of his glory, or as if he had caught upon himself

the distant shine of the celestial city, while looking thitherward to

see the triumphant pilgrim pass within its gates,—now, in short, good

Father Wilson was moving homeward, aiding his footsteps with a lighted

lantern! The glimmer of this luminary suggested the above conceits to

Mr. Dimmesdale, who smiled,—nay, almost laughed at them,—and then

wondered if he were going mad.

As the Reverend Mr. Wilson passed beside the scaffold, closely

muffling his Geneva cloak about him with one arm, and holding the

lantern before his breast with the other, the minister could hardly

restrain himself from speaking.

“A good evening to you, venerable Father Wilson! Come up hither, I

pray you, and pass a pleasant hour with me!”

Good heavens! Had Mr. Dimmesdale actually spoken? For one instant, he

believed that these words had passed his lips. But they were uttered

only within his imagination. The venerable Father Wilson continued to

step slowly onward, looking carefully at the muddy pathway before his