“Something wrong with the gun,” he said. “But what if there is? They’ll

get it right again. And even if there’s a delay, how can it alter the

end? It’s just men and ants. There’s the ants builds their cities, live

their lives, have wars, revolutions, until the men want them out of the

way, and then they go out of the way. That’s what we are now—just ants.

Only——”

“Yes,” I said.

“We’re eatable ants.”

We sat looking at each other.

“And what will they do with us?” I said.

“That’s what I’ve been thinking,” he said; “that’s what I’ve been

thinking. After Weybridge I went south—thinking. I saw what was up.

Most of the people were hard at it squealing and exciting themselves.

But I’m not so fond of squealing. I’ve been in sight of death once or

twice; I’m not an ornamental soldier, and at the best and worst,

death—it’s just death. And it’s the man that keeps on thinking comes

through. I saw everyone tracking away south. Says I, ‘Food won’t last

this way,’ and I turned right back. I went for the Martians like a

sparrow goes for man. All round”—he waved a hand to the

horizon—“they’re starving in heaps, bolting, treading on each other. .

. .”

He saw my face, and halted awkwardly.

“No doubt lots who had money have gone away to France,” he said. He

seemed to hesitate whether to apologise, met my eyes, and went on:

“There’s food all about here. Canned things in shops; wines, spirits,

mineral waters; and the water mains and drains are empty. Well, I was

telling you what I was thinking. ‘Here’s intelligent things,’ I said,

‘and it seems they want us for food. First, they’ll smash us up—ships,

machines, guns, cities, all the order and organisation. All that will

go. If we were the size of ants we might pull through. But we’re not.

It’s all too bulky to stop. That’s the first certainty.’ Eh?”

I assented.

“It is; I’ve thought it out. Very well, then—next; at present we’re

caught as we’re wanted. A Martian has only to go a few miles to get a

crowd on the run. And I saw one, one day, out by Wandsworth, picking

houses to pieces and routing among the wreckage. But they won’t keep on

doing that. So soon as they’ve settled all our guns and ships, and

smashed our railways, and done all the things they are doing over

there, they will begin catching us systematic, picking the best and

storing us in cages and things. That’s what they will start doing in a

bit. Lord! They haven’t begun on us yet. Don’t you see that?”

“Not begun!” I exclaimed.

“Not begun. All that’s happened so far is through our not having the

sense to keep quiet—worrying them with guns and such foolery. And

losing our heads, and rushing off in crowds to where there wasn’t any

more safety than where we were. They don’t want to bother us yet.

They’re making their things—making all the things they couldn’t bring

with them, getting things ready for the rest of their people. Very

likely that’s why the cylinders have stopped for a bit, for fear of

hitting those who are here. And instead of our rushing about blind, on

the howl, or getting dynamite on the chance of busting them up, we’ve

got to fix ourselves up according to the new state of affairs. That’s

how I figure it out. It isn’t quite according to what a man wants for

his species, but it’s about what the facts point to. And that’s the

principle I acted upon. Cities, nations, civilisation, progress—it’s