behind them the shops and the Swift homestead, the two passengers were

aware of their almost silent flight. The big aeroplane, the exhaust of

which, ordinarily, would have nearly deafened them, was now as silent

as a bird.

"Silent Sam for Uncle Sam!" cried Tom in delight, as he went on faster.

"I'm sure the government ought to be glad to get this plane for air

scout work. It's a success! A great success!"

"Yes, so it is!" agreed Mr. Damon. "You do well to speak of it so, Tom."

For, modest as the young inventor was, he felt, in justice to himself,

that he must acknowledge the fact that his craft was a success. For it

rose and sailed almost as silently as a bat, and a few hundred feet

away no one, not seeing it, would have believed a big aeroplane was in

motion.

Tom and Mr. Damon flew about twenty miles at a swift pace, and all the

fault Tom had to find was that the machine was not as steady in flight

as she should have been.

"But I can remedy that with the use of some of dad's gyroscope

stabilizers," he told Mr. Damon.

They returned to the hangar safely, and the first trip of the new

Silent Sam was an assured success.

It was the following day, when Tom was busy in the machine shop

installing the gyroscopes spoken of, that Jackson came to tell him

there was a visitor to see him.

"Who is it?" asked the young inventor.

"Mr. Gale of the Universal Company," was the answer.

"I don't want to see him!" declared Tom quickly. "I have nothing to say

to him after his clumsy threats."

"He seems very much in earnest," said Jackson. "Better see him, if only

for a minute or so."

"All right, I will," assented Tom. "Show him in."

Mr. Gale, as blusteringly bluff as ever, entered the shop. Tom had

carefully put away all papers and models, as well as the finished

machines, so he had no fear that his visitor might discover some secret.

"Oh, Mr. Swift!" began the president of the Universal Company, when he

met the young inventor, "I wish to assure you that what has been done

was entirely without our knowledge. And, though this man may have acted

as our agent at one time, we repudiate any acts of his that might--"

"What are you talking about?" asked Tom in surprise. "Have I been so

impolite as to sleep during part of your talk? I don't understand what

you are driving at."

"Oh, I thought you did," said Gale, and he showed surprise. "I

understood that the man who--"

"Do you mean there was some one here in the shed last night?" cried the

young inventor suddenly, all his suspicions aroused.

"Some one here last night?" repeated Mr. Gale. "No, I don't refer to

last night. But perhaps I am making a mistake. I--er--I--"

"Some one is making a mistake!" said Tom significantly.

CHAPTER XIX

ANOTHER FLIGHT

For perhaps a quarter of a minute Tom Swift and the president of the

Universal Flying Machine Company of New York sat staring at one

another. Mr. Gale's face wore a puzzled expression, and so did Tom's.

And, after the last remark of the young inventor, the man who had

called to see him said:

"Well, perhaps we are talking at cross purposes. I don't blame you for

not feeling very friendly toward us, and if I had had my way that last

correspondence with you would never have left our office."

"It wasn't very business-like," said Tom dryly, referring to the veiled

threats when he had refused to sell his services to the rival company.

"I realize that," said Mr. Gale. "But we have some peculiar men working

for us, and sometimes there is so much to do, so many possibilities of

which to take advantage, that we may get a little off our balance. But

what I called for was not to renew our offer to you. I understand that

is definitely settled."

"As far as I am concerned, it is," said Tom, as his caller seemed to

want an answer.

"Yes. Well, then, what I called to say was that if you are thinking of