Take him and cut him out in little starres,

And he will make the Face of heauen so fine,

That all the world will be in Loue with night,

And pay no worship to the Garish Sun.

O I haue bought the Mansion of a Loue,

But not possest it, and though I am sold,

Not yet enioy'd, so tedious is this day,

As is the night before some Festiuall,

To an impatient child that hath new robes

And may not weare them, O here comes my Nurse:

Enter Nurse with cords.

And she brings newes and euery tongue that speaks

But Romeos name, speakes heauenly eloquence:

Now Nurse, what newes? what hast thou there?

The Cords that Romeo bid thee fetch?

 Nur. I, I, the Cords

 Iuli. Ay me, what newes?

Why dost thou wring thy hands

 Nur. A weladay, hee's dead, hee's dead,

We are vndone Lady, we are vndone.

Alacke the day, hee's gone, hee's kil'd, he's dead

 Iul. Can heauen be so enuious?

 Nur. Romeo can,

Though heauen cannot. O Romeo, Romeo.

Who euer would haue thought it Romeo

 Iuli. What diuell art thou,

That dost torment me thus?

This torture should be roar'd in dismall hell,

Hath Romeo slaine himselfe? say thou but I,

And that bare vowell I shall poyson more

Then the death-darting eye of Cockatrice,

I am not I, if there be such an I.

Or those eyes shot, that makes thee answere I:

If he be slaine say I, or if not, no.

Briefe, sounds, determine of my weale or wo

 Nur. I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes,

God saue the marke, here on his manly brest,

A pitteous Coarse, a bloody piteous Coarse:

Pale, pale as ashes, all bedawb'd in blood,

All in gore blood I sounded at the sight

 Iul. O breake my heart,

Poore Banckrout breake at once,

To prison eyes, nere looke on libertie.

Vile earth to earth resigne, end motion here,

And thou and Romeo presse on heauie beere

 Nur. O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best Friend I had:

O curteous Tybalt honest Gentleman,

That euer I should liue to see thee dead

 Iul. What storme is this that blowes so contrarie?

Is Romeo slaughtred? and is Tybalt dead?

My dearest Cozen, and my dearer Lord:

Then dreadfull Trumpet sound the generall doome,

For who is liuing, if those two are gone?

 Nur. Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished,

Romeo that kil'd him, he is banished

 Iul. O God!

Did Romeo's hand shed Tybalts blood

It did, it did, alas the day, it did

 Nur. O Serpent heart hid with a flowring face

 Iul. Did euer Dragon keepe so faire a Caue?

Beautifull Tyrant, fiend Angelicall:

Rauenous Doue-feather'd Rauen,

Woluish-rauening Lambe,

Dispised substance of Diuinest show:

Iust opposite to what thou iustly seem'st,

A dimne Saint, an Honourable Villaine:

O Nature! what had'st thou to doe in hell,

When thou did'st bower the spirit of a fiend

In mortall paradise of such sweet flesh?

Was euer booke containing such vile matter

So fairely bound? O that deceit should dwell

In such a gorgeous Pallace

 Nur. There's no trust, no faith, no honestie in men,

All periur'd, all forsworne, all naught, all dissemblers,

Ah where's my man? giue me some Aqua-vitae?

These griefes, these woes, these sorrowes make me old:

Shame come to Romeo