fears us; he fear time, he fear want! For if not, why he hurry so? His

very tone betray him, or my ears deceive. Why take that money? You

follow quick. You are hunters of wild beast, and understand it so. For

me, I make sure that nothing here may be of use to him, if so that he

return.” As he spoke he put the money remaining into his pocket; took

the title-deeds in the bundle as Harker had left them, and swept the

remaining things into the open fireplace, where he set fire to them with

a match.

Godalming and Morris had rushed out into the yard, and Harker had

lowered himself from the window to follow the Count. He had, however,

bolted the stable door; and by the time they had forced it open there

was no sign of him. Van Helsing and I tried to make inquiry at the back

of the house; but the mews was deserted and no one had seen him depart.

It was now late in the afternoon, and sunset was not far off. We had to

recognise that our game was up; with heavy hearts we agreed with the

Professor when he said:--

“Let us go back to Madam Mina--poor, poor dear Madam Mina. All we can do

just now is done; and we can there, at least, protect her. But we need

not despair. There is but one more earth-box, and we must try to find

it; when that is done all may yet be well.” I could see that he spoke as

bravely as he could to comfort Harker. The poor fellow was quite broken

down; now and again he gave a low groan which he could not suppress--he

was thinking of his wife.

With sad hearts we came back to my house, where we found Mrs. Harker

waiting us, with an appearance of cheerfulness which did honour to her

bravery and unselfishness. When she saw our faces, her own became as

pale as death: for a second or two her eyes were closed as if she were

in secret prayer; and then she said cheerfully:--

“I can never thank you all enough. Oh, my poor darling!” As she spoke,

she took her husband’s grey head in her hands and kissed it--“Lay your

poor head here and rest it. All will yet be well, dear! God will protect

us if He so will it in His good intent.” The poor fellow groaned. There

was no place for words in his sublime misery.

We had a sort of perfunctory supper together, and I think it cheered us

all up somewhat. It was, perhaps, the mere animal heat of food to hungry

people--for none of us had eaten anything since breakfast--or the sense

of companionship may have helped us; but anyhow we were all less

miserable, and saw the morrow as not altogether without hope. True to

our promise, we told Mrs. Harker everything which had passed; and

although she grew snowy white at times when danger had seemed to

threaten her husband, and red at others when his devotion to her was

manifested, she listened bravely and with calmness. When we came to the

part where Harker had rushed at the Count so recklessly, she clung to

her husband’s arm, and held it tight as though her clinging could

protect him from any harm that might come. She said nothing, however,

till the narration was all done, and matters had been brought right up

to the present time. Then without letting go her husband’s hand she

stood up amongst us and spoke. Oh, that I could give any idea of the

scene; of that sweet, sweet, good, good woman in all the radiant beauty

of her youth and animation, with the red scar on her forehead, of which

she was conscious, and which we saw with grinding of our

teeth--remembering whence and how it came; her loving kindness against

our grim hate; her tender faith against all our fears and doubting; and

we, knowing that so far as symbols went, she with all her goodness and

purity and faith, was outcast from God.

“Jonathan,” she said, and the word sounded like music on her lips it was

so full of love and tenderness, “Jonathan dear, and you all my true,

true friends, I want you to bear something in mind through all this

dreadful time. I know that you must fight--that you must destroy even as

you destroyed the false Lucy so that the true Lucy might live hereafter;

but it is not a work of hate. That poor soul who has wrought all this

misery is the saddest case of all. Just think what will be his joy when

he, too, is destroyed in his worser part that his better part may have

spiritual immortality. You must be pitiful to him, too, though it may

not hold your hands from his destruction.”

As she spoke I could see her husband’s face darken and draw together, as

though the passion in him were shrivelling his being to its core.

Instinctively the clasp on his wife’s hand grew closer, till his

knuckles looked white. She did not flinch from the pain which I knew she

must have suffered, but looked at him with eyes that were more appealing