not at all like the two visitors. There was something about them that

aroused his antagonism, and he said later that even if they had offered

him a sum which he felt he ought not, in justice to himself and his

father, refuse, he would have felt a distaste in working for a company

represented by the twain.

"This is our offer," said Mr. Gale, and he spoke in a pompous manner

which seemed to say: "If you don't take it, why, it will be the worse

for you." He looked at his treasurer for a confirmatory nod and,

receiving it, went on. "We are prepared to offer and pay you, and will

enter into such a contract, with the stipulation about the inventions

that I mentioned before--we are prepared to pay you--twenty thousand

dollars a year! Now what do you say to that, Tom Swift?

"Twenty-thousand-dollars-a-year!" repeated Mr. Gale unctuously, rolling

the words off his tongue. "Twen-ty-thou-sand-dol-lars-a-year! Think of

it!"

"I am thinking of it," said Tom Swift gently, "and I thank you for your

offer. It is, indeed, very generous. But I must give you the same

answer. I cannot accept."

"Tom!" exclaimed his aged father.

"Mr. Swift!" exclaimed the two visitors.

Tom smiled and shook his head.

"Oh, I know very well what I am saying, and what I am turning down," he

said. "But I simply cannot accept. I have other plans. I am sorry you

have had your trip for nothing," he added to the visitors, "but,

really, I must refuse."

"Is that your final answer?" asked Mr. Gale.

"Yes."

"Don't you want to take a day or two to think it over?" asked the

treasurer. "Don't be hasty. Remember that very few young men can

command that salary, and I may say you will find us liberal in other

ways. You would have some time to yourself."

"That is what I most need," returned Tom. "Time to myself. No, thank

you, gentlemen, I cannot accept."

"Be careful!" warned Mr. Gale, and it sounded as though there might be

a threat in his voice. "This is our last offer, and your last chance.

We will not renew this. If you do not accept our twenty thousand

dollars now, you will never get it again."

"I realize that," said Tom, "and I am prepared to take the consequences.

"Very well, then," said Mr. Gale. "There seems nothing for us to do,

Mr. Ware, but to go back to New York. I bid you good-day," and he bowed

stiffly to Tom. "I hope you will not regret your refusal of our offer."

"I hope so myself," said Tom, lightly.

When the visitors had gone Mr. Swift turned toward his son, and,

shaking his head, remarked:

"Of course, you know your own business best, Tom. Yet I cannot but feel

you have made a mistake."

"How?" asked Tom. "By not taking that money? I can easily make that in

a year, with an idea I have in mind for an improvement on an airship.

And your new electric motor will soon be ready for the market. Besides,

we don't really need the money."

"No, not now, Tom, but there is no telling when we may," said Mr.

Swift, slowly. "This big war has made many changes, and things that

brought us in a good income before, hardly sell at all, now."

"Oh, don't worry, Dad! We still have a few shots left in the locker--in

other words, the bank. I'm expecting Ned Newton over any moment now, to

give us the annual statement of our account, and then we'll know where

we stand. I'm not afraid from the money end. Our business has done

well, and it is going to do better. I have a new idea."