 Par. This is that banisht haughtie Mountague,

That murdred my Loues Cozin; with which griefe,

It is supposed the faire Creature died,

And here is come to do some villanous shame

To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him.

Stop thy vnhallowed toyle, vile Mountague:

Can vengeance be pursued further then death?

Condemned villaine, I do apprehend thee.

Obey and go with me, for thou must die,

 Rom. I must indeed, and therfore came I hither:

Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man,

Flie hence and leaue me, thinke vpon those gone,

Let them affright thee. I beseech thee Youth,

Put not an other sin vpon my head,

By vrging me to furie. O be gone,

By heauen I loue thee better then my selfe,

For I come hither arm'd against my selfe:

Stay not, be gone, liue, and hereafter say,

A mad mans mercy bid thee run away

 Par. I do defie thy commisseration,

And apprehend thee for a Fellon here

 Ro. Wilt thou prouoke me? Then haue at thee Boy

 Pet. O Lord they fight, I will go call the Watch

 Pa. O I am slaine, if thou be mercifull,

Open the Tombe, lay me with Iuliet

 Rom. In faith I will, let me peruse this face:

Mercutius kinsman, Noble Countie Paris,

What said my man, when my betossed soule

Did not attend him as we rode? I thinke

He told me Paris should haue married Iuliet.

Said he not so? Or did I dreame it so?

Or am I mad, hearing him talke of Iuliet,

To thinke it was so? O giue me thy hand,

One, writ with me in sowre misfortunes booke.

Ile burie thee in a triumphant graue.

A Graue; O no, a Lanthorne; slaughtred Youth:

For here lies Iuliet, and her beautie makes

This Vault a feasting presence full of light.

Death lie thou there, by a dead man inter'd,

How oft when men are at the point of death,

Haue they beene merrie? Which their Keepers call

A lightning before death? Oh how may I

Call this a lightning? O my Loue, my Wife,

Death that hath suckt the honey of thy breath,

Hath had no power yet vpon thy Beautie:

Thou are not conquer'd: Beauties ensigne yet

Is Crymson in thy lips, and in thy cheekes,

And Deaths pale flag is not aduanced there.

Tybalt, ly'st thou there in thy bloudy sheet?

O what more fauour can I do to thee,

Then with that hand that cut thy youth in twaine,

To sunder his that was thy enemie?

Forgiue me Cozen. Ah deare Iuliet:

Why art thou yet so faire? I will beleeue,

Shall I beleeue, that vnsubstantiall death is amorous?

And that the leane abhorred Monster keepes

Thee here in darke to be his Paramour?

For feare of that, I still will stay with thee,

And neuer from this Pallace of dym night

Depart againe: come lie thou in my armes,

Heere's to thy health, where ere thou tumblest in.

O true Appothecarie!

Thy drugs are quicke. Thus with a kisse I die.

Depart againe; here, here will I remaine,

With Wormes that are thy Chambermaides: O here

Will I set vp my euerlasting rest:

And shake the yoke of inauspicious starres

From this world-wearied flesh: Eyes looke your last:

Armes take your last embrace: And lips, O you

The doores of breath, seale with a righteous kisse

A datelesse bargaine to ingrossing death:

Come bitter conduct, come vnsauory guide,

Thou desperate Pilot, now at once run on

The dashing Rocks, thy Sea-sicke wearie Barke:

Heere's to my Loue. O true Appothecary:

Thy drugs are quicke. Thus with a kisse I die.

Enter Frier with a Lanthorne, Crow, and Spade.

 Fri. St. Francis be my speed, how oft to night