far-fetched," he went on. "But take a look for yourself. If those

particles on, the files aren't exactly of the same color and texture as

the material of which the silencer case is made, I'll never build

another machine."

Jackson peered through the powerful glass moving out a little farther

from the shack, so as to get the best light possible on the subject of

his examination. It was fast getting dark, but there was enough glow in

the western sky for his purpose.

"Am I right?" asked Tom.

"You're right!" declared his helper. "This is exactly the same metal as

that of which your silencer case is made. It's a peculiar mixture of

aluminum and vanadium steel. I never knew it used in any shop but

yours, and these filings are certainly of that metal. It would seem,

Tom, that these were the files used to cut a crease in the case of your

silencer to weaken it so it would burst."

"My idea exactly!" cried Tom. "The spy, who got into my shop in some

undiscovered manner, did his work and then fled here to hide. He left

his files behind. Mr. Nestor must have been here, either before or

after. No, I'll not say that, either. Finding his wallet here doesn't

prove that he was here. It might have been brought here by one of the

spies and dropped. But I'm sure we're on the track of the men who

damaged my airship, as well as those who know something of the mystery

of Mr. Nestor."

"I agree with you," said Jackson. "Of course there's a possibility that

the same peculiar metal you used in your silencer case may have been

used in some other machine shop, and these files may have come from

there, and have been employed in perfectly regular work. But the

chances are--"

"There's only one way to make sure," said Tom. "Let's take the files

with us and see if they fit in the grooves where the break came. We'll

take these back to where we left the Air Scout," and he clinked the

files he held.

"We can just about make it before it gets black dark," returned

Jackson. "But that won't give us any more time to look around here,"

and he indicated the hut.

"I fancy we've seen all there is to see here," said Tom. "Mr. Nestor

isn't here, and whether he was or not is a question. Anyhow, some one

was here who had something to do with him after his disappearance, I'm

positive of that. And I'm sure some one was here who damaged my

airship. Now we'll run down both those clews, find out who owns this

place, who has been using it, and all we can along that line. So, if

you're ready, let's travel."

The two set out to make their way back to where they had left the

stranded airship. It was fast becoming dark, but they could hurry along

with more speed now, as they did not have to stop to look for the marks

of the peculiar automobile tires. They had noticed the path along which

they had traveled, and in half the time they had spent coming they were

back where the Air Scout rested undisturbed in the meadow amid the

trees.

Making sure that, as far as they could tell, no one had visited the

craft since they had left it, Tom and Jackson compared the file marks

on what was left of the broken silencer case with the files they had

found in the hut. They used a small, but powerful electric lamp to aid

them in this examination, as it was too dark to see otherwise, and what

they saw caused the young inventor to exclaim:

"That settles it! These were the files used!"

"That's right!" agreed his assistant. "You've called the turn, Tom. The

next thing to do is to find who connects with the files."

"Yes. To do that and find Mr. Nestor," said Tom. "We have plenty of

work ahead of us. But let's get nearer civilization and send some word