But, touching your medicine, kind Sir, in my present frame of body, I

need it not.”

“I joy to hear it,” answered the physician. “It may be that my

remedies, so long administered in vain, begin now to take due effect.

Happy man were I, and well deserving of New England’s gratitude, could

I achieve this cure!”

“I thank you from my heart, most watchful friend,” said the Reverend

Mr. Dimmesdale, with a solemn smile. “I thank you, and can but requite

your good deeds with my prayers.”

“A good man’s prayers are golden recompense!” rejoined old Roger

Chillingworth, as he took his leave. “Yea, they are the current gold

coin of the New Jerusalem, with the King’s own mint-mark on them!”

Left alone, the minister summoned a servant of the house, and

requested food, which, being set before him, he ate with ravenous

appetite. Then, flinging the already written pages of the Election

Sermon into the fire, he forthwith began another, which he wrote with

such an impulsive flow of thought and emotion, that he fancied himself

inspired; and only wondered that Heaven should see fit to transmit the

grand and solemn music of its oracles through so foul an organ-pipe as

he. However, leaving that mystery to solve itself, or go unsolved

forever, he drove his task onward, with earnest haste and ecstasy.

Thus the night fled away, as if it were a winged steed, and he

careering on it; morning came, and peeped, blushing, through the

curtains; and at last sunrise threw a golden beam into the study and

laid it right across the minister’s bedazzled eyes. There he was, with

the pen still between his fingers, and a vast, immeasurable tract of

written space behind him!

 [Illustration]

 XXI.

 THE NEW ENGLAND HOLIDAY.

Betimes in the morning of the day on which the new Governor was to

receive his office at the hands of the people, Hester Prynne and

little Pearl came into the market-place. It was already thronged with

the craftsmen and other plebeian inhabitants of the town, in

considerable numbers; among whom, likewise, were many rough figures,

whose attire of deer-skins marked them as belonging to some of the

forest settlements, which surrounded the little metropolis of the

colony.

On this public holiday, as on all other occasions, for seven years

past, Hester was clad in a garment of coarse gray cloth. Not more by

its hue than by some indescribable peculiarity in its fashion, it had

the effect of making her fade personally out of sight and outline;

while, again, the scarlet letter brought her back from this twilight

indistinctness, and revealed her under the moral aspect of its own

illumination. Her face, so long familiar to the towns-people, showed

the marble quietude which they were accustomed to behold there. It was

like a mask; or, rather, like the frozen calmness of a dead woman’s

features; owing this dreary resemblance to the fact that Hester was

actually dead, in respect to any claim of sympathy, and had departed

out of the world with which she still seemed to mingle.

It might be, on this one day, that there was an expression unseen

before, nor, indeed, vivid enough to be detected now; unless some

preternaturally gifted observer should have first read the heart, and

have afterwards sought a corresponding development in the countenance

and mien. Such a spiritual seer might have conceived, that, after

sustaining the gaze of the multitude through seven miserable years as

a necessity, a penance, and something which it was a stern religion to

endure, she now, for one last time more, encountered it freely and

voluntarily, in order to convert what had so long been agony into a

kind of triumph. “Look your last on the scarlet letter and its

wearer!”—the people’s victim and life-long bond-slave, as they

fancied her, might say to them. “Yet a little while, and she will be

beyond your reach! A few hours longer, and the deep, mysterious ocean

will quench and hide forever the symbol which ye have caused to burn

upon her bosom!” Nor were it an inconsistency too improbable to be

assigned to human nature, should we suppose a feeling of regret in

Hester’s mind, at the moment when she was about to win her freedom

from the pain which had been thus deeply incorporated with her being.

Might there not be an irresistible desire to quaff a last, long,

breathless draught of the cup of wormwood and aloes, with which nearly

all her years of womanhood had been perpetually flavored? The wine of

life, henceforth to be presented to her lips, must be indeed rich,

delicious, and exhilarating, in its chased and golden beaker; or else

leave an inevitable and weary languor, after the lees of bitterness

wherewith she had been drugged, as with a cordial of intensest

potency.

Pearl was decked out with airy gayety. It would have been impossible

to guess that this bright and sunny apparition owed its existence to

the shape of gloomy gray; or that a fancy, at once so gorgeous and so

delicate as must have been requisite to contrive the child’s apparel,

was the same that had achieved a task perhaps more difficult, in

imparting so distinct a peculiarity to Hester’s simple robe. The