the hood. At that my heart gave a bound, and I began running along the

road.

I hurried through the red weed that choked St. Edmund’s Terrace (I

waded breast-high across a torrent of water that was rushing down from

the waterworks towards the Albert Road), and emerged upon the grass

before the rising of the sun. Great mounds had been heaped about the

crest of the hill, making a huge redoubt of it—it was the final and

largest place the Martians had made—and from behind these heaps there

rose a thin smoke against the sky. Against the sky line an eager dog

ran and disappeared. The thought that had flashed into my mind grew

real, grew credible. I felt no fear, only a wild, trembling exultation,

as I ran up the hill towards the motionless monster. Out of the hood

hung lank shreds of brown, at which the hungry birds pecked and tore.

In another moment I had scrambled up the earthen rampart and stood upon

its crest, and the interior of the redoubt was below me. A mighty space

it was, with gigantic machines here and there within it, huge mounds of

material and strange shelter places. And scattered about it, some in

their overturned war-machines, some in the now rigid handling-machines,

and a dozen of them stark and silent and laid in a row, were the

Martians—_dead_!—slain by the putrefactive and disease bacteria against

which their systems were unprepared; slain as the red weed was being

slain; slain, after all man’s devices had failed, by the humblest

things that God, in his wisdom, has put upon this earth.

For so it had come about, as indeed I and many men might have foreseen

had not terror and disaster blinded our minds. These germs of disease

have taken toll of humanity since the beginning of things—taken toll of

our prehuman ancestors since life began here. But by virtue of this

natural selection of our kind we have developed resisting power; to no

germs do we succumb without a struggle, and to many—those that cause

putrefaction in dead matter, for instance—our living frames are

altogether immune. But there are no bacteria in Mars, and directly

these invaders arrived, directly they drank and fed, our microscopic

allies began to work their overthrow. Already when I watched them they

were irrevocably doomed, dying and rotting even as they went to and

fro. It was inevitable. By the toll of a billion deaths man has bought

his birthright of the earth, and it is his against all comers; it would

still be his were the Martians ten times as mighty as they are. For

neither do men live nor die in vain.

Here and there they were scattered, nearly fifty altogether, in that

great gulf they had made, overtaken by a death that must have seemed to

them as incomprehensible as any death could be. To me also at that time

this death was incomprehensible. All I knew was that these things that

had been alive and so terrible to men were dead. For a moment I

believed that the destruction of Sennacherib had been repeated, that

God had repented, that the Angel of Death had slain them in the night.

I stood staring into the pit, and my heart lightened gloriously, even

as the rising sun struck the world to fire about me with his rays. The

pit was still in darkness; the mighty engines, so great and wonderful

in their power and complexity, so unearthly in their tortuous forms,

rose weird and vague and strange out of the shadows towards the light.

A multitude of dogs, I could hear, fought over the bodies that lay

darkly in the depth of the pit, far below me. Across the pit on its

farther lip, flat and vast and strange, lay the great flying-machine

with which they had been experimenting upon our denser atmosphere when

decay and death arrested them. Death had come not a day too soon. At

the sound of a cawing overhead I looked up at the huge fighting-machine

that would fight no more for ever, at the tattered red shreds of flesh

that dripped down upon the overturned seats on the summit of Primrose

Hill.

I turned and looked down the slope of the hill to where, enhaloed now

in birds, stood those other two Martians that I had seen overnight,

just as death had overtaken them. The one had died, even as it had been

crying to its companions; perhaps it was the last to die, and its voice

had gone on perpetually until the force of its machinery was exhausted.

They glittered now, harmless tripod towers of shining metal, in the

brightness of the rising sun.

All about the pit, and saved as by a miracle from everlasting

destruction, stretched the great Mother of Cities. Those who have only

seen London veiled in her sombre robes of smoke can scarcely imagine

the naked clearness and beauty of the silent wilderness of houses.

Eastward, over the blackened ruins of the Albert Terrace and the

splintered spire of the church, the sun blazed dazzling in a clear sky,

and here and there some facet in the great wilderness of roofs caught

the light and glared with a white intensity.

Northward were Kilburn and Hampsted, blue and crowded with houses;