towards Knaphill I saw the flashes of trees and hedges and wooden

buildings suddenly set alight.

It was sweeping round swiftly and steadily, this flaming death, this

invisible, inevitable sword of heat. I perceived it coming towards me

by the flashing bushes it touched, and was too astounded and stupefied

to stir. I heard the crackle of fire in the sand-pits and the sudden

squeal of a horse that was as suddenly stilled. Then it was as if an

invisible yet intensely heated finger were drawn through the heather

between me and the Martians, and all along a curving line beyond the

sand-pits the dark ground smoked and crackled. Something fell with a

crash far away to the left where the road from Woking station opens out

on the common. Forth-with the hissing and humming ceased, and the

black, dome-like object sank slowly out of sight into the pit.

All this had happened with such swiftness that I had stood motionless,

dumbfounded and dazzled by the flashes of light. Had that death swept

through a full circle, it must inevitably have slain me in my surprise.

But it passed and spared me, and left the night about me suddenly dark

and unfamiliar.

The undulating common seemed now dark almost to blackness, except where

its roadways lay grey and pale under the deep blue sky of the early

night. It was dark, and suddenly void of men. Overhead the stars were

mustering, and in the west the sky was still a pale, bright, almost

greenish blue. The tops of the pine trees and the roofs of Horsell came

out sharp and black against the western afterglow. The Martians and

their appliances were altogether invisible, save for that thin mast

upon which their restless mirror wobbled. Patches of bush and isolated

trees here and there smoked and glowed still, and the houses towards

Woking station were sending up spires of flame into the stillness of

the evening air.

Nothing was changed save for that and a terrible astonishment. The

little group of black specks with the flag of white had been swept out

of existence, and the stillness of the evening, so it seemed to me, had

scarcely been broken.

It came to me that I was upon this dark common, helpless, unprotected,

and alone. Suddenly, like a thing falling upon me from without,

came—fear.

With an effort I turned and began a stumbling run through the heather.

The fear I felt was no rational fear, but a panic terror not only of

the Martians, but of the dusk and stillness all about me. Such an

extraordinary effect in unmanning me it had that I ran weeping silently

as a child might do. Once I had turned, I did not dare to look back.

I remember I felt an extraordinary persuasion that I was being played

with, that presently, when I was upon the very verge of safety, this

mysterious death—as swift as the passage of light—would leap after me

from the pit about the cylinder, and strike me down.

VI.

THE HEAT-RAY IN THE CHOBHAM ROAD.

It is still a matter of wonder how the Martians are able to slay men so

swiftly and so silently. Many think that in some way they are able to

generate an intense heat in a chamber of practically absolute

non-conductivity. This intense heat they project in a parallel beam

against any object they choose, by means of a polished parabolic mirror

of unknown composition, much as the parabolic mirror of a lighthouse

projects a beam of light. But no one has absolutely proved these

details. However it is done, it is certain that a beam of heat is the

essence of the matter. Heat, and invisible, instead of visible, light.

Whatever is combustible flashes into flame at its touch, lead runs like

water, it softens iron, cracks and melts glass, and when it falls upon

water, incontinently that explodes into steam.

That night nearly forty people lay under the starlight about the pit,

charred and distorted beyond recognition, and all night long the common

from Horsell to Maybury was deserted and brightly ablaze.

The news of the massacre probably reached Chobham, Woking, and

Ottershaw about the same time. In Woking the shops had closed when the

tragedy happened, and a number of people, shop people and so forth,

attracted by the stories they had heard, were walking over the Horsell

Bridge and along the road between the hedges that runs out at last upon

the common. You may imagine the young people brushed up after the

labours of the day, and making this novelty, as they would make any

novelty, the excuse for walking together and enjoying a trivial

flirtation. You may figure to yourself the hum of voices along the road

in the gloaming. . . .

As yet, of course, few people in Woking even knew that the cylinder had