to remain on earth. He built a speedy motor boat, and then secured an

airship, following that with a submarine. He also made an electric

runabout that was the speediest car on the road. Sending wireless

messages, having thrilling experiences among the diamond makers,

journeying to the caves of ice, and making perilous trips in his sky

racer took up part of the young inventor's time.

With his electric rifle he did some wonderful shooting, and in the

"City of Gold" made some strange discoveries, part of the fortune he

secured enabling him to build his sky racer. It was in a land of giants

that Tom was made captive, but he succeeded in escaping, and brought

two giants, of whom Koku was one, away with him.

Following this achievement Tom invented a wizard camera and a great

searchlight, which, with his giant cannon, was purchased by the United

States Government. Work on his photo-telephone and his aerial warship,

the problem of digging a big tunnel, and then traveling to the land of

wonders, kept Tom Swift very busy, and he had just completed a

wonderful piece of work when the present story opens.

This last achievement was the perfecting of a machine to aid in the

great World War and you will find the details set down in the volume

which immediately precedes this. "Tom Swift and His War Tank," it is

called, and in that is related how he not only invented a marvelous

machine, but succeeded in keeping its secret from the plotters who

tried to take it from him. In this Tom was helped by the inspiration of

Mary Nestor, whom he hoped some day to marry, and by Ned Newton, a

chum, who, though no inventor himself, could admire one.

Ned and Tom had been chums a long while, but Ned inclined more to

financial and office matters than to machinery. At times he had managed

affairs for Tom, and helped him finance projects. Ned was now an

important bank official, and since the United States had entered the

war had had charge of some Red Cross work, as well as Liberty Bond

campaigns.

Somehow, as she sat there in the craft which seemed disabled, Mary

Nestor could not help thinking of Tom's many activities, in some of

which she had shared.

"Oh, if he falls now, and is killed!" she thought. "Oh, what will

happen to us?"

"It's all right, Mary! Don't worry! It's all right!" cried Tom, through

the speaking tube.

"What's that? I can't hear you very well!" she called back.

"No wonder, with the racket this motor is making," he answered. "Why

can't something be done so you can talk in an aeroplane as well as in a

balloon? That's an idea! If I could tell you what was the matter now

you wouldn't be a bit frightened, for it isn't anything. But, as it

is--"

"What are you saying, Tom? I can't hear you!" cried Mary, still much

frightened.

"I say it's all right--don't get scared. And don't jump!" Tom shouted

until his ears buzzed. "It's all nonsense--having a motor making so

much noise one can't talk!" he went on, irritatedly.

A strange idea had come to the young inventor, but there was no time to

think of it now. Mentally he registered a vow to take up this idea and

work on it as soon as possible. But, just now, the aeroplane needed all

his attention.

As he had told Mary, there was really nothing approaching any great

danger. But it was rather an anxious moment. If Tom had been alone he

would have thought little of it, but with Mary along he felt a double

responsibility.

What had happened was that the craft had suddenly gone into an "air

pocket" or partial vacuum, and there had been a sudden fall and a slide

slip. In trying to stop this too quickly Tom had broken one of his

controls, and he was busily engaged in putting an auxiliary one in

place and trying to reassure Mary at the same time.

"But it's mighty hard trying to do that through a speaking tube with a

motor making a noise like a boiler factory," mused the young inventor.

Tom worked quickly and to good purpose. In a few moments, though to

Mary they seemed like hours, the machine was again gliding along on a

level keel, and Tom breathed more easily.