not the earth, quickened to an evil purpose by the sympathy of his

eye, greet him with poisonous shrubs, of species hitherto unknown,

that would start up under his fingers? Or might it suffice him, that

every wholesome growth should be converted into something deleterious

and malignant at his touch? Did the sun, which shone so brightly

everywhere else, really fall upon him? Or was there, as it rather

seemed, a circle of ominous shadow moving along with his deformity,

whichever way he turned himself? And whither was he now going? Would

he not suddenly sink into the earth, leaving a barren and blasted

spot, where, in due course of time, would be seen deadly nightshade,

dogwood, henbane, and whatever else of vegetable wickedness the

climate could produce, all flourishing with hideous luxuriance? Or

would he spread bat’s wings and flee away, looking so much the uglier,

the higher he rose towards heaven?

[Illustration: “He gathered herbs here and there”]

“Be it sin or no,” said Hester Prynne, bitterly, as she still gazed

after him, “I hate the man!”

She upbraided herself for the sentiment, but could not overcome or

lessen it. Attempting to do so, she thought of those long-past days,

in a distant land, when he used to emerge at eventide from the

seclusion of his study, and sit down in the firelight of their home,

and in the light of her nuptial smile. He needed to bask himself in

that smile, he said, in order that the chill of so many lonely hours

among his books might be taken off the scholar’s heart. Such scenes

had once appeared not otherwise than happy, but now, as viewed through

the dismal medium of her subsequent life, they classed themselves

among her ugliest remembrances. She marvelled how such scenes could

have been! She marvelled how she could ever have been wrought upon to

marry him! She deemed it her crime most to be repented of, that she

had ever endured, and reciprocated, the lukewarm grasp of his hand,

and had suffered the smile of her lips and eyes to mingle and melt

into his own. And it seemed a fouler offence committed by Roger

Chillingworth, than any which had since been done him, that, in the

time when her heart knew no better, he had persuaded her to fancy

herself happy by his side.

“Yes, I hate him!” repeated Hester, more bitterly than before. “He

betrayed me! He has done me worse wrong than I did him!”

Let men tremble to win the hand of woman, unless they win along with

it the utmost passion of her heart! Else it may be their miserable

fortune, as it was Roger Chillingworth’s, when some mightier touch

than their own may have awakened all her sensibilities, to be

reproached even for the calm content, the marble image of happiness,

which they will have imposed upon her as the warm reality. But Hester

ought long ago to have done with this injustice. What did it betoken?

Had seven long years, under the torture of the scarlet letter,

inflicted so much of misery, and wrought out no repentance?

The emotions of that brief space, while she stood gazing after the

crooked figure of old Roger Chillingworth, threw a dark light on

Hester’s state of mind, revealing much that she might not otherwise

have acknowledged to herself.

He being gone, she summoned back her child.

“Pearl! Little Pearl! Where are you?”

[Illustration: Pearl on the Sea-Shore]

Pearl, whose activity of spirit never flagged, had been at no loss for

amusement while her mother talked with the old gatherer of herbs. At

first, as already told, she had flirted fancifully with her own image

in a pool of water, beckoning the phantom forth, and—as it declined

to venture—seeking a passage for herself into its sphere of

impalpable earth and unattainable sky. Soon finding, however, that

either she or the image was unreal, she turned elsewhere for better

pastime. She made little boats out of birch-bark, and freighted them

with snail-shells, and sent out more ventures on the mighty deep than

any merchant in New England; but the larger part of them foundered

near the shore. She seized a live horseshoe by the tail, and made

prize of several five-fingers, and laid out a jelly-fish to melt in

the warm sun. Then she took up the white foam, that streaked the line

of the advancing tide, and threw it upon the breeze, scampering after

it, with winged footsteps, to catch the great snow-flakes ere they

fell. Perceiving a flock of beach-birds, that fed and fluttered along

the shore, the naughty child picked up her apron full of pebbles, and,

creeping from rock to rock after these small sea-fowl, displayed

remarkable dexterity in pelting them. One little gray bird, with a