stiffened all her muscles. She was beginning to "find herself."

On and on, and up and up, went Mary and Tom, in this the girl's first

big sky ride. The earth below seemed farther and farther away. The

wide, green fields became little emerald squares, and the houses like

those in a toy Noah's ark.

Down below, Mr. Wakefield Damon, who had hurried over from his home in

Waterfield to see Tom Swift, gazed aloft at the fast disappearing

aeroplane and its passengers.

"Bless my coal bin!" cried the eccentric man, "but Tom is in a hurry

this morning. Too bad he couldn't have stopped and spoken to me. It

might have been greatly to his advantage. But I suppose I shall have to

wait."

"You want to see Master?" asked a voice behind Mr. Damon, and, turning,

he beheld a veritable giant.

"Yes, Koku, I did," Mr. Damon answered, and he did not appear at all

surprised at the sight of the towering form beside him. "I wanted to

see Tom most particularly. But I shall have to wait. I'll go in and

talk to Mr. Swift."

"Yaas, an' I go talk to Radicate," said the giant. "Him diggin' up

ground where Master told me to make garden. Radicate not strong enough

for dat!"

"Huh! there's trouble as soon as those two get to disputing," mused Mr.

Damon, as he went toward the house.

Meanwhile, Mary was beginning to enjoy herself. The sensation of moving

rapidly through the air in a machine as skillfully guided as was the

one piloted by Tom Swift was delightful. Up and up they went, and then

suddenly Mary felt a lurch, and the plane, which was now about a

thousand feet high, seemed to slip to one side.

Mary screamed, and began reaching for the buckle of the safety belt

that fastened her to her seat. She saw that something unusual had

occurred, for Tom was working frantically at the mechanism in front of

him.

But, in spite of this, he seemed aware that Mary was in danger, not so

much, perhaps, from what might happen to the machine, as what she might

do in her terror.

"Oh! Oh!" cried the girl, and Tom heard her above the terrific noise of

the motor, for she was speaking with her lips close to the tube that

served as a sort of inter-communicating telephone for the craft. "Oh,

we are falling! I'm going to jump!"

"Sit still! Sit still for your life!" cried Tom Swift. "I'll save you

all right! Only sit still! Don't jump!"

Mary, her red cheeks white, sank back, and the young inventor redoubled

his efforts at the controls and other mechanisms.

And that Tom was perfectly qualified to make a safe landing, even with

engine trouble, Mary Nestor well knew. Those of you who have read the

previous books of this series know it also, but, for the benefit of my

new readers, I shall state that this was by no means Tom's first ride

in an aeroplane.

He had operated and built gasoline engines ever since he was about

sixteen years old. As related in the initial volume of this series,

entitled, "Tom Swift and His Motorcycle," he became possessed of this

machine after it had started to climb a tree with Mr. Damon on board.

After that experience the eccentric man--blessing everything he could

think of--had no liking for the speedy motorcycle and sold it to Tom at

a low price.

That was the beginning of a friendship between the two, and also

started Tom on his career as an inventor and a possessor of many

gasoline craft. For he was not content with merely riding the repaired

motorcycle. He made improvements on it.

Tom lived with his father in the town of Shopton, their home being

looked after, since the death of Mrs. Swift, by Mrs. Baggert. Mr.

Wakefield Damon lived in the neighboring town of Waterfield, and spent

much time at Tom's home, often going on trips with him in various

vehicles of the land, sea or air.

As related in the various volumes of this series, Tom was not content