confess the truth, it was my greatest apprehension,—as it would never

be a measure of policy to turn out so quiet an individual as myself,

and it being hardly in the nature of a public officer to resign,—it

was my chief trouble, therefore, that I was likely to grow gray and

decrepit in the Surveyorship, and become much such another animal as

the old Inspector. Might it not, in the tedious lapse of official

life that lay before me, finally be with me as it was with this

venerable friend,—to make the dinner-hour the nucleus of the day, and

to spend the rest of it, as an old dog spends it, asleep in the

sunshine or in the shade? A dreary look-forward this, for a man who

felt it to be the best definition of happiness to live throughout the

whole range of his faculties and sensibilities! But, all this while, I

was giving myself very unnecessary alarm. Providence had meditated

better things for me than I could possibly imagine for myself.

A remarkable event of the third year of my Surveyorship—to adopt the

tone of “P. P.”—was the election of General Taylor to the Presidency.

It is essential, in order to form a complete estimate of the advantages of

official life, to view the incumbent at the incoming of a hostile

administration. His position is then one of the most singularly

irksome, and, in every contingency, disagreeable, that a wretched

mortal can possibly occupy; with seldom an alternative of good, on

either hand, although what presents itself to him as the worst event

may very probably be the best. But it is a strange experience, to a

man of pride and sensibility, to know that his interests are within

the control of individuals who neither love nor understand him, and by

whom, since one or the other must needs happen, he would rather be

injured than obliged. Strange, too, for one who has kept his calmness

throughout the contest, to observe the blood-thirstiness that is

developed in the hour of triumph, and to be conscious that he is

himself among its objects! There are few uglier traits of human nature

than this tendency—which I now witnessed in men no worse than their

neighbors—to grow cruel, merely because they possessed the power of

inflicting harm. If the guillotine, as applied to office-holders,

were a literal fact instead of one of the most apt of metaphors, it is

my sincere belief that the active members of the victorious party were

sufficiently excited to have chopped off all our heads, and have

thanked Heaven for the opportunity! It appears to me—who have been a

calm and curious observer, as well in victory as defeat—that this

fierce and bitter spirit of malice and revenge has never distinguished

the many triumphs of my own party as it now did that of the Whigs. The

Democrats take the offices, as a general rule, because they need them,

and because the practice of many years has made it the law of

political warfare, which, unless a different system be proclaimed, it

were weakness and cowardice to murmur at. But the long habit of

victory has made them generous. They know how to spare, when they see

occasion; and when they strike, the axe may be sharp, indeed, but its

edge is seldom poisoned with ill-will; nor is it their custom

ignominiously to kick the head which they have just struck off.

In short, unpleasant as was my predicament, at best, I saw much reason

to congratulate myself that I was on the losing side, rather than the

triumphant one. If, heretofore, I had been none of the warmest of

partisans, I began now, at this season of peril and adversity, to be

pretty acutely sensible with which party my predilections lay; nor was

it without something like regret and shame, that, according to a

reasonable calculation of chances, I saw my own prospect of retaining

office to be better than those of my Democratic brethren. But who can

see an inch into futurity, beyond his nose? My own head was the first

that fell!

The moment when a man’s head drops off is seldom or never, I am

inclined to think, precisely the most agreeable of his life.

Nevertheless, like the greater part of our misfortunes, even so

serious a contingency brings its remedy and consolation with it, if

the sufferer will but make the best, rather than the worst, of the

accident which has befallen him. In my particular case, the

consolatory topics were close at hand, and, indeed, had suggested

themselves to my meditations a considerable time before it was

requisite to use them. In view of my previous weariness of office, and

vague thoughts of resignation, my fortune somewhat resembled that of a

person who should entertain an idea of committing suicide, and,

although beyond his hopes, meet with the good hap to be murdered. In

the Custom-House, as before in the Old Manse, I had spent three years;

a term long enough to rest a weary brain; long enough to break off old

intellectual habits, and make room for new ones; long enough, and too

long, to have lived in an unnatural state, doing what was really of no

advantage nor delight to any human being, and withholding myself from

toil that would, at least, have stilled an unquiet impulse in me.

Then, moreover, as regarded his unceremonious ejectment, the late

Surveyor was not altogether ill-pleased to be recognized by the Whigs

as an enemy; since his inactivity in political affairs—his tendency