immediately withdrawn, and afterwards a thin rod rose up, joint by

joint, bearing at its apex a circular disk that spun with a wobbling

motion. What could be going on there?

Most of the spectators had gathered in one or two groups—one a little

crowd towards Woking, the other a knot of people in the direction of

Chobham. Evidently they shared my mental conflict. There were few near

me. One man I approached—he was, I perceived, a neighbour of mine,

though I did not know his name—and accosted. But it was scarcely a time

for articulate conversation.

“What ugly _brutes_!” he said. “Good God! What ugly brutes!” He

repeated this over and over again.

“Did you see a man in the pit?” I said; but he made no answer to that.

We became silent, and stood watching for a time side by side, deriving,

I fancy, a certain comfort in one another’s company. Then I shifted my

position to a little knoll that gave me the advantage of a yard or more

of elevation and when I looked for him presently he was walking towards

Woking.

The sunset faded to twilight before anything further happened. The

crowd far away on the left, towards Woking, seemed to grow, and I heard

now a faint murmur from it. The little knot of people towards Chobham

dispersed. There was scarcely an intimation of movement from the pit.

It was this, as much as anything, that gave people courage, and I

suppose the new arrivals from Woking also helped to restore confidence.

At any rate, as the dusk came on a slow, intermittent movement upon the

sand-pits began, a movement that seemed to gather force as the

stillness of the evening about the cylinder remained unbroken. Vertical

black figures in twos and threes would advance, stop, watch, and

advance again, spreading out as they did so in a thin irregular

crescent that promised to enclose the pit in its attenuated horns. I,

too, on my side began to move towards the pit.

Then I saw some cabmen and others had walked boldly into the sand-pits,

and heard the clatter of hoofs and the gride of wheels. I saw a lad

trundling off the barrow of apples. And then, within thirty yards of

the pit, advancing from the direction of Horsell, I noted a little

black knot of men, the foremost of whom was waving a white flag.

This was the Deputation. There had been a hasty consultation, and since

the Martians were evidently, in spite of their repulsive forms,

intelligent creatures, it had been resolved to show them, by

approaching them with signals, that we too were intelligent.

Flutter, flutter, went the flag, first to the right, then to the left.

It was too far for me to recognise anyone there, but afterwards I

learned that Ogilvy, Stent, and Henderson were with others in this

attempt at communication. This little group had in its advance dragged

inward, so to speak, the circumference of the now almost complete

circle of people, and a number of dim black figures followed it at

discreet distances.

Suddenly there was a flash of light, and a quantity of luminous

greenish smoke came out of the pit in three distinct puffs, which drove

up, one after the other, straight into the still air.

This smoke (or flame, perhaps, would be the better word for it) was so

bright that the deep blue sky overhead and the hazy stretches of brown

common towards Chertsey, set with black pine trees, seemed to darken

abruptly as these puffs arose, and to remain the darker after their

dispersal. At the same time a faint hissing sound became audible.

Beyond the pit stood the little wedge of people with the white flag at

its apex, arrested by these phenomena, a little knot of small vertical

black shapes upon the black ground. As the green smoke arose, their

faces flashed out pallid green, and faded again as it vanished. Then

slowly the hissing passed into a humming, into a long, loud, droning

noise. Slowly a humped shape rose out of the pit, and the ghost of a

beam of light seemed to flicker out from it.

Forthwith flashes of actual flame, a bright glare leaping from one to

another, sprang from the scattered group of men. It was as if some

invisible jet impinged upon them and flashed into white flame. It was

as if each man were suddenly and momentarily turned to fire.

Then, by the light of their own destruction, I saw them staggering and

falling, and their supporters turning to run.

I stood staring, not as yet realising that this was death leaping from

man to man in that little distant crowd. All I felt was that it was

something very strange. An almost noiseless and blinding flash of

light, and a man fell headlong and lay still; and as the unseen shaft

of heat passed over them, pine trees burst into fire, and every dry

furze bush became with one dull thud a mass of flames. And far away