 Mer. A baud, a baud, a baud. So ho

 Rom. What hast thou found?

 Mer. No Hare sir, vnlesse a Hare sir in a Lenten pie,

that is something stale and hoare ere it be spent.

An old Hare hoare, and an old Hare hoare is very good

meat in Lent.

But a Hare that is hoare is too much for a score, when it

hoares ere it be spent,

Romeo will you come to your Fathers? Weele to dinner

thither

 Rom. I will follow you

 Mer. Farewell auncient Lady:

Farewell Lady, Lady, Lady.

Exit. Mercutio, Benuolio.

 Nur. I pray you sir, what sawcie Merchant was this

that was so full of his roperie?

 Rom. A Gentleman Nurse, that loues to heare himselfe

talke, and will speake more in a minute, then he will stand

to in a Moneth

 Nur. And a speake any thing against me, Ile take him

downe, z a were lustier then he is, and twentie such Iacks:

and if I cannot, Ile finde those that shall: scuruie knaue, I

am none of his flurt-gils, I am none of his skaines mates,

and thou must stand by too and suffer euery knaue to vse

me at his pleasure

 Pet. I saw no man vse you at his pleasure: if I had, my

weapon should quickly haue beene out, I warrant you, I

dare draw assoone as another man, if I see occasion in a

good quarrell, and the law on my side

 Nur. Now afore God, I am so vext, that euery part about

me quiuers, skuruy knaue: pray you sir a word: and as I

told you, my young Lady bid me enquire you out, what

she bid me say, I will keepe to my selfe: but first let me

tell ye, if ye should leade her in a fooles paradise, as they

say, it were a very grosse kind of behauiour, as they say:

for the Gentlewoman is yong: & therefore, if you should

deale double with her, truely it were an ill thing to be offered

to any Gentlewoman, and very weake dealing

 Nur. Nurse commend me to thy Lady and Mistresse, I

protest vnto thee

 Nur. Good heart, and yfaith I will tell her as much:

Lord, Lord she will be a ioyfull woman

 Rom. What wilt thou tell her Nurse? thou doest not

marke me?

 Nur. I will tell her sir, that you do protest, which as I

take it, is a Gentleman-like offer

 Rom. Bid her deuise some meanes to come to shrift this

afternoone,

And there she shall at Frier Lawrence Cell

Be shriu'd and married: here is for thy paines

 Nur. No truly sir not a penny

 Rom. Go too, I say you shall

 Nur. This afternoone sir? well she shall be there

 Ro. And stay thou good Nurse behind the Abbey wall,

Within this houre my man shall be with thee,

And bring thee Cords made like a tackled staire,

Which to the high top gallant of my ioy,

Must be my conuoy in the secret night.

Farewell, be trustie and Ile quite thy paines:

Farewell, commend me to thy Mistresse

 Nur. Now God in heauen blesse thee: harke you sir,

 Rom. What saist thou my deare Nurse?

 Nurse. Is your man secret, did you nere heare say two

may keepe counsell putting one away

 Ro. Warrant thee my man is true as steele

 Nur. Well sir, my Mistresse is the sweetest Lady, Lord,

Lord, when 'twas a little prating thing. O there is a Noble

man in Towne one Paris, that would faine lay knife aboard:

but she good soule had as leeue see a Toade, a very