“Oh yes! but that is all right; you needn’t worry about that!”

“But,” I asked, “how are we to get the life without getting the soul

also?” This seemed to puzzle him, so I followed it up:--

“A nice time you’ll have some time when you’re flying out there, with

the souls of thousands of flies and spiders and birds and cats buzzing

and twittering and miauing all round you. You’ve got their lives, you

know, and you must put up with their souls!” Something seemed to affect

his imagination, for he put his fingers to his ears and shut his eyes,

screwing them up tightly just as a small boy does when his face is being

soaped. There was something pathetic in it that touched me; it also gave

me a lesson, for it seemed that before me was a child--only a child,

though the features were worn, and the stubble on the jaws was white. It

was evident that he was undergoing some process of mental disturbance,

and, knowing how his past moods had interpreted things seemingly foreign

to himself, I thought I would enter into his mind as well as I could and

go with him. The first step was to restore confidence, so I asked him,

speaking pretty loud so that he would hear me through his closed ears:--

“Would you like some sugar to get your flies round again?” He seemed to

wake up all at once, and shook his head. With a laugh he replied:--

“Not much! flies are poor things, after all!” After a pause he added,

“But I don’t want their souls buzzing round me, all the same.”

“Or spiders?” I went on.

“Blow spiders! What’s the use of spiders? There isn’t anything in them

to eat or”--he stopped suddenly, as though reminded of a forbidden

topic.

“So, so!” I thought to myself, “this is the second time he has suddenly

stopped at the word ‘drink’; what does it mean?” Renfield seemed himself

aware of having made a lapse, for he hurried on, as though to distract

my attention from it:--

“I don’t take any stock at all in such matters. ‘Rats and mice and such

small deer,’ as Shakespeare has it, ‘chicken-feed of the larder’ they

might be called. I’m past all that sort of nonsense. You might as well

ask a man to eat molecules with a pair of chop-sticks, as to try to

interest me about the lesser carnivora, when I know of what is before

me.”

“I see,” I said. “You want big things that you can make your teeth meet

in? How would you like to breakfast on elephant?”

“What ridiculous nonsense you are talking!” He was getting too wide

awake, so I thought I would press him hard. “I wonder,” I said

reflectively, “what an elephant’s soul is like!”

The effect I desired was obtained, for he at once fell from his

high-horse and became a child again.

“I don’t want an elephant’s soul, or any soul at all!” he said. For a

few moments he sat despondently. Suddenly he jumped to his feet, with

his eyes blazing and all the signs of intense cerebral excitement. “To

hell with you and your souls!” he shouted. “Why do you plague me about

souls? Haven’t I got enough to worry, and pain, and distract me already,

without thinking of souls!” He looked so hostile that I thought he was

in for another homicidal fit, so I blew my whistle. The instant,

however, that I did so he became calm, and said apologetically:--

“Forgive me, Doctor; I forgot myself. You do not need any help. I am so

worried in my mind that I am apt to be irritable. If you only knew the

problem I have to face, and that I am working out, you would pity, and

tolerate, and pardon me. Pray do not put me in a strait-waistcoat. I

want to think and I cannot think freely when my body is confined. I am

sure you will understand!” He had evidently self-control; so when the

attendants came I told them not to mind, and they withdrew. Renfield

watched them go; when the door was closed he said, with considerable

dignity and sweetness:--

“Dr. Seward, you have been very considerate towards me. Believe me that

I am very, very grateful to you!” I thought it well to leave him in this

mood, and so I came away. There is certainly something to ponder over in

this man’s state. Several points seem to make what the American

interviewer calls “a story,” if one could only get them in proper order.

Here they are:--

Will not mention “drinking.”

Fears the thought of being burdened with the “soul” of anything.