than ever. As she stopped speaking he leaped to his feet, almost tearing

his hand from hers as he spoke:--

“May God give him into my hand just for long enough to destroy that

earthly life of him which we are aiming at. If beyond it I could send

his soul for ever and ever to burning hell I would do it!”

“Oh, hush! oh, hush! in the name of the good God. Don’t say such things,

Jonathan, my husband; or you will crush me with fear and horror. Just

think, my dear--I have been thinking all this long, long day of it--that

... perhaps ... some day ... I, too, may need such pity; and that some

other like you--and with equal cause for anger--may deny it to me! Oh,

my husband! my husband, indeed I would have spared you such a thought

had there been another way; but I pray that God may not have treasured

your wild words, except as the heart-broken wail of a very loving and

sorely stricken man. Oh, God, let these poor white hairs go in evidence

of what he has suffered, who all his life has done no wrong, and on whom

so many sorrows have come.”

We men were all in tears now. There was no resisting them, and we wept

openly. She wept, too, to see that her sweeter counsels had prevailed.

Her husband flung himself on his knees beside her, and putting his arms

round her, hid his face in the folds of her dress. Van Helsing beckoned

to us and we stole out of the room, leaving the two loving hearts alone

with their God.

Before they retired the Professor fixed up the room against any coming

of the Vampire, and assured Mrs. Harker that she might rest in peace.

She tried to school herself to the belief, and, manifestly for her

husband’s sake, tried to seem content. It was a brave struggle; and was,

I think and believe, not without its reward. Van Helsing had placed at

hand a bell which either of them was to sound in case of any emergency.

When they had retired, Quincey, Godalming, and I arranged that we should

sit up, dividing the night between us, and watch over the safety of the

poor stricken lady. The first watch falls to Quincey, so the rest of us

shall be off to bed as soon as we can. Godalming has already turned in,

for his is the second watch. Now that my work is done I, too, shall go

to bed.

_Jonathan Harker’s Journal._

_3-4 October, close to midnight._--I thought yesterday would never end.

There was over me a yearning for sleep, in some sort of blind belief

that to wake would be to find things changed, and that any change must

now be for the better. Before we parted, we discussed what our next step

was to be, but we could arrive at no result. All we knew was that one

earth-box remained, and that the Count alone knew where it was. If he

chooses to lie hidden, he may baffle us for years; and in the

meantime!--the thought is too horrible, I dare not think of it even now.

This I know: that if ever there was a woman who was all perfection, that

one is my poor wronged darling. I love her a thousand times more for her

sweet pity of last night, a pity that made my own hate of the monster

seem despicable. Surely God will not permit the world to be the poorer

by the loss of such a creature. This is hope to me. We are all drifting

reefwards now, and faith is our only anchor. Thank God! Mina is

sleeping, and sleeping without dreams. I fear what her dreams might be

like, with such terrible memories to ground them in. She has not been so

calm, within my seeing, since the sunset. Then, for a while, there came

over her face a repose which was like spring after the blasts of March.

I thought at the time that it was the softness of the red sunset on her

face, but somehow now I think it has a deeper meaning. I am not sleepy

myself, though I am weary--weary to death. However, I must try to sleep;

for there is to-morrow to think of, and there is no rest for me

until....

 * * * * *

_Later._--I must have fallen asleep, for I was awaked by Mina, who was

sitting up in bed, with a startled look on her face. I could see easily,

for we did not leave the room in darkness; she had placed a warning hand

over my mouth, and now she whispered in my ear:--

“Hush! there is someone in the corridor!” I got up softly, and crossing

the room, gently opened the door.