of power.

I was a lonely man, and they were very kind to me. I was a lonely man

and a sad one, and they bore with me. I remained with them four days

after my recovery. All that time I felt a vague, a growing craving to

look once more on whatever remained of the little life that seemed so

happy and bright in my past. It was a mere hopeless desire to feast

upon my misery. They dissuaded me. They did all they could to divert me

from this morbidity. But at last I could resist the impulse no longer,

and, promising faithfully to return to them, and parting, as I will

confess, from these four-day friends with tears, I went out again into

the streets that had lately been so dark and strange and empty.

Already they were busy with returning people; in places even there were

shops open, and I saw a drinking fountain running water.

I remember how mockingly bright the day seemed as I went back on my

melancholy pilgrimage to the little house at Woking, how busy the

streets and vivid the moving life about me. So many people were abroad

everywhere, busied in a thousand activities, that it seemed incredible

that any great proportion of the population could have been slain. But

then I noticed how yellow were the skins of the people I met, how

shaggy the hair of the men, how large and bright their eyes, and that

every other man still wore his dirty rags. Their faces seemed all with

one of two expressions—a leaping exultation and energy or a grim

resolution. Save for the expression of the faces, London seemed a city

of tramps. The vestries were indiscriminately distributing bread sent

us by the French government. The ribs of the few horses showed

dismally. Haggard special constables with white badges stood at the

corners of every street. I saw little of the mischief wrought by the

Martians until I reached Wellington Street, and there I saw the red

weed clambering over the buttresses of Waterloo Bridge.

At the corner of the bridge, too, I saw one of the common contrasts of

that grotesque time—a sheet of paper flaunting against a thicket of the

red weed, transfixed by a stick that kept it in place. It was the

placard of the first newspaper to resume publication—the _Daily Mail_.

I bought a copy for a blackened shilling I found in my pocket. Most of

it was in blank, but the solitary compositor who did the thing had

amused himself by making a grotesque scheme of advertisement stereo on

the back page. The matter he printed was emotional; the news

organisation had not as yet found its way back. I learned nothing fresh

except that already in one week the examination of the Martian

mechanisms had yielded astonishing results. Among other things, the

article assured me what I did not believe at the time, that the “Secret

of Flying,” was discovered. At Waterloo I found the free trains that

were taking people to their homes. The first rush was already over.

There were few people in the train, and I was in no mood for casual

conversation. I got a compartment to myself, and sat with folded arms,

looking greyly at the sunlit devastation that flowed past the windows.

And just outside the terminus the train jolted over temporary rails,

and on either side of the railway the houses were blackened ruins. To

Clapham Junction the face of London was grimy with powder of the Black

Smoke, in spite of two days of thunderstorms and rain, and at Clapham

Junction the line had been wrecked again; there were hundreds of

out-of-work clerks and shopmen working side by side with the customary

navvies, and we were jolted over a hasty relaying.

All down the line from there the aspect of the country was gaunt and

unfamiliar; Wimbledon particularly had suffered. Walton, by virtue of

its unburned pine woods, seemed the least hurt of any place along the

line. The Wandle, the Mole, every little stream, was a heaped mass of

red weed, in appearance between butcher’s meat and pickled cabbage. The

Surrey pine woods were too dry, however, for the festoons of the red

climber. Beyond Wimbledon, within sight of the line, in certain nursery

grounds, were the heaped masses of earth about the sixth cylinder. A

number of people were standing about it, and some sappers were busy in

the midst of it. Over it flaunted a Union Jack, flapping cheerfully in

the morning breeze. The nursery grounds were everywhere crimson with

the weed, a wide expanse of livid colour cut with purple shadows, and

very painful to the eye. One’s gaze went with infinite relief from the

scorched greys and sullen reds of the foreground to the blue-green