expectation. We are due to arrive between two and three in the morning;

but already, at Bucharest, we are three hours late, so we cannot

possibly get in till well after sun-up. Thus we shall have two more

hypnotic messages from Mrs. Harker; either or both may possibly throw

more light on what is happening.

 * * * * *

_Later._--Sunset has come and gone. Fortunately it came at a time when

there was no distraction; for had it occurred whilst we were at a

station, we might not have secured the necessary calm and isolation.

Mrs. Harker yielded to the hypnotic influence even less readily than

this morning. I am in fear that her power of reading the Count’s

sensations may die away, just when we want it most. It seems to me that

her imagination is beginning to work. Whilst she has been in the trance

hitherto she has confined herself to the simplest of facts. If this goes

on it may ultimately mislead us. If I thought that the Count’s power

over her would die away equally with her power of knowledge it would be

a happy thought; but I am afraid that it may not be so. When she did

speak, her words were enigmatical:--

“Something is going out; I can feel it pass me like a cold wind. I can

hear, far off, confused sounds--as of men talking in strange tongues,

fierce-falling water, and the howling of wolves.” She stopped and a

shudder ran through her, increasing in intensity for a few seconds,

till, at the end, she shook as though in a palsy. She said no more, even

in answer to the Professor’s imperative questioning. When she woke from

the trance, she was cold, and exhausted, and languid; but her mind was

all alert. She could not remember anything, but asked what she had said;

when she was told, she pondered over it deeply for a long time and in

silence.

 * * * * *

_30 October, 7 a. m._--We are near Galatz now, and I may not have time

to write later. Sunrise this morning was anxiously looked for by us all.

Knowing of the increasing difficulty of procuring the hypnotic trance,

Van Helsing began his passes earlier than usual. They produced no

effect, however, until the regular time, when she yielded with a still

greater difficulty, only a minute before the sun rose. The Professor

lost no time in his questioning; her answer came with equal quickness:--

“All is dark. I hear water swirling by, level with my ears, and the

creaking of wood on wood. Cattle low far off. There is another sound, a

queer one like----” She stopped and grew white, and whiter still.

“Go on; go on! Speak, I command you!” said Van Helsing in an agonised

voice. At the same time there was despair in his eyes, for the risen sun

was reddening even Mrs. Harker’s pale face. She opened her eyes, and we

all started as she said, sweetly and seemingly with the utmost

unconcern:--

“Oh, Professor, why ask me to do what you know I can’t? I don’t remember

anything.” Then, seeing the look of amazement on our faces, she said,

turning from one to the other with a troubled look:--

“What have I said? What have I done? I know nothing, only that I was

lying here, half asleep, and heard you say ‘go on! speak, I command you!’

It seemed so funny to hear you order me about, as if I were a bad

child!”

“Oh, Madam Mina,” he said, sadly, “it is proof, if proof be needed, of

how I love and honour you, when a word for your good, spoken more

earnest than ever, can seem so strange because it is to order her whom I

am proud to obey!”

The whistles are sounding; we are nearing Galatz. We are on fire with

anxiety and eagerness.

_Mina Harker’s Journal._

_30 October._--Mr. Morris took me to the hotel where our rooms had been

ordered by telegraph, he being the one who could best be spared, since

he does not speak any foreign language. The forces were distributed

much as they had been at Varna, except that Lord Godalming went to the

Vice-Consul, as his rank might serve as an immediate guarantee of some

sort to the official, we being in extreme hurry. Jonathan and the two

doctors went to the shipping agent to learn particulars of the arrival

of the _Czarina Catherine_.

 * * * * *

_Later._--Lord Godalming has returned. The Consul is away, and the

Vice-Consul sick; so the routine work has been attended to by a clerk.