Such were some of the people with whom I now found myself connected. I

took it in good part, at the hands of Providence, that I was thrown

into a position so little akin to my past habits, and set myself

seriously to gather from it whatever profit was to be had. After my

fellowship of toil and impracticable schemes with the dreamy brethren

of Brook Farm; after living for three years within the subtile

influence of an intellect like Emerson’s; after those wild, free days

on the Assabeth, indulging fantastic speculations, beside our fire of

fallen boughs, with Ellery Channing; after talking with Thoreau about

pine-trees and Indian relics, in his hermitage at Walden; after

growing fastidious by sympathy with the classic refinement of

Hillard’s culture; after becoming imbued with poetic sentiment at

Longfellow’s hearthstone;—it was time, at length, that I should

exercise other faculties of my nature, and nourish myself with food

for which I had hitherto had little appetite. Even the old Inspector

was desirable, as a change of diet, to a man who had known Alcott. I

look upon it as an evidence, in some measure, of a system naturally

well balanced, and lacking no essential part of a thorough

organization, that, with such associates to remember, I could mingle

at once with men of altogether different qualities, and never murmur

at the change.

Literature, its exertions and objects, were now of little moment in

my regard. I cared not, at this period, for books; they were apart

from me. Nature,—except it were human nature,—the nature that is

developed in earth and sky, was, in one sense, hidden from me; and all

the imaginative delight, wherewith it had been spiritualized, passed

away out of my mind. A gift, a faculty if it had not departed, was

suspended and inanimate within me. There would have been something

sad, unutterably dreary, in all this, had I not been conscious that it

lay at my own option to recall whatever was valuable in the past. It

might be true, indeed, that this was a life which could not with

impunity be lived too long; else, it might have made me permanently

other than I had been without transforming me into any shape which it

would be worth my while to take. But I never considered it as other

than a transitory life. There was always a prophetic instinct, a low

whisper in my ear, that, within no long period, and whenever a new

change of custom should be essential to my good, a change would come.

Meanwhile, there I was, a Surveyor of the Revenue, and, so far as I

have been able to understand, as good a Surveyor as need be. A man of

thought, fancy, and sensibility (had he ten times the Surveyor’s

proportion of those qualities) may, at any time, be a man of affairs,

if he will only choose to give himself the trouble. My fellow-officers,

and the merchants and sea-captains with whom my official duties

brought me into any manner of connection, viewed me in no other light,

and probably knew me in no other character. None of them, I presume,

had ever read a page of my inditing, or would have cared a fig the

more for me, if they had read them all; nor would it have mended the

matter, in the least, had those same unprofitable pages been written

with a pen like that of Burns or of Chaucer, each of whom was a

custom-house officer in his day, as well as I. It is a good

lesson—though it may often be a hard one—for a man who has dreamed of

literary fame, and of making for himself a rank among the world’s

dignitaries by such means, to step aside out of the narrow circle in

which his claims are recognized, and to find how utterly devoid of

significance, beyond that circle, is all that he achieves, and all he

aims at. I know not that I especially needed the lesson, either in the

way of warning or rebuke; but, at any rate, I learned it thoroughly:

nor, it gives me pleasure to reflect, did the truth, as it came home

to my perception, ever cost me a pang, or require to be thrown off in

a sigh. In the way of literary talk, it is true, the Naval Officer—an

excellent fellow, who came into office with me and went out only a

little later—would often engage me in a discussion about one or the

other of his favorite topics, Napoleon or Shakespeare. The Collector’s

junior clerk, too—a young gentleman who, it was whispered,

occasionally covered a sheet of Uncle Sam’s letter-paper with what (at

the distance of a few yards) looked very much like poetry—used now and

then to speak to me of books, as matters with which I might possibly

be conversant. This was my all of lettered intercourse; and it was

quite sufficient for my necessities.

No longer seeking nor caring that my name should be blazoned abroad on

title-pages, I smiled to think that it had now another kind of vogue.

The Custom-House marker imprinted it, with a stencil and black paint,

on pepper-bags, and baskets of anatto, and cigar-boxes, and bales of

all kinds of dutiable merchandise, in testimony that these commodities

had paid the impost, and gone regularly through the office. Borne on

such queer vehicle of fame, a knowledge of my existence, so far as a

name conveys it, was carried where it had never been before, and, I

hope, will never go again.