"You think so, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I'm sure of it!"

"Oh, dear! That's too bad. Bless my overshoes, but I thought I had a

new idea. Well, you ought to know. So Damon's Whizzer goes on the scrap

heap before ever it's built. Well, we'll say no more about it. You

ought to know best, Tom. I wasn't thinking of it so much for myself as

for you. I thought you'd like some new idea to work on."

"Much obliged, Mr. Damon, but I have a new idea," said Tom.

"You have? What is it? Tell me--that is, if it isn't a secret," went on

the eccentric man, as much delighted over Tom's new plan as he had been

over his own Whizzer, doomed to failure so soon.

"It isn't a secret from you," said Tom. "I got the idea while I was

riding with Mary. I wanted to talk to her--to tell her not to jump out

when we had a little accident--but I had trouble making myself

understood because of the noise of the motor."

"They do make a great racket," conceded Mr. Damon. "But I don't suppose

anything can be done about it."

"I don't see why there can't!" exclaimed Tom. "And that's my new

idea--to make a silent aircraft motor--perhaps silent propeller blades,

though it's the motor that makes the most noise. And that's what I'm

going to do--invent a silent aeroplane. Not because I want so much to

talk when I take passengers up in the air, but I believe such a motor

would be valuable, especially for scouting planes in war work. To go

over the enemy's lines and not be heard would be valuable many times.

"And that's what I'm going to do--work on a silent motor for Uncle Sam.

I've got the germ of an idea and now--"

"Excuse me," said a voice behind Mr. Damon and Tom, and, turning, the

young inventor beheld the form of Mr. Peton Gale, president of the

Universal Flying Machine Company.

CHAPTER VI

MAKING PLANS

Tom Swift had drawn pencil and paper from his pocket, and, as he and

Mr. Damon were sitting on the steps of one of the shops, the young

inventor was about to demonstrate by a drawing part of his new project,

when the interruption came in the shape of one of the men who had, an

hour before, made a business offer to Tom.

"Excuse me," went on Mr. Peton Gale, "but Mr. Ware and I got to talking

it over on our way to the station--the matter of having you in our

company, Mr. Swift--and we concluded that it was worth twenty-five

thousand dollars a year for us to have you. So I came back--"

"It isn't of the slightest use, Mr. Gale, I assure you," said Tom, a

bit heatedly, for he did not like the persistency of this man, nor did

he like his coming on the factory grounds unannounced and in this

secret manner. "I told you I could not accept your offer. It is not

altogether a matter of money. My word was final."

"Oh very well, if you put it that way," said Mr. Gale stiffly, "of

course there is nothing more to say. But I thought perhaps you did not

consider we had offered you enough and--"

"Your offer is fair enough from a financial standpoint," said Tom; "but

I simply cannot accept it. I have other plans. Jackson!" he called to

one of his mechanics who was passing, "kindly see Mr. Gale to the gate,

and then let me know how it was any one came in here without a permit."

"Yes, sir," said the mechanic, as he stood significantly waiting.

"There was no one at the gate when I came in," said Mr. Gale, and his

manner was antagonizing. "I wanted to speak to you--to ask you to

reconsider your offer--so I came back."

"It is against the rules to admit strangers to the shop grounds," said

Tom. "Good-day!"

The president of the Universal Flying Machine Company did not respond,

but there was a look on his face as he turned away that, had Tom seen

it, might have caused him some uneasiness. But he did not see. Instead,

he resumed his talk with Mr. Damon.

"Tom, your idea is most interesting," declared the eccentric man. "I

hope you will be able to work it out!"

"I'm going to try," said the young inventor. "I hope that man--Mr.