rooks--and humans. I am busy, I need not tell you, arranging things and

housekeeping. Jonathan and Mr. Hawkins are busy all day; for, now that

Jonathan is a partner, Mr. Hawkins wants to tell him all about the

clients.

“How is your dear mother getting on? I wish I could run up to town for a

day or two to see you, dear, but I dare not go yet, with so much on my

shoulders; and Jonathan wants looking after still. He is beginning to

put some flesh on his bones again, but he was terribly weakened by the

long illness; even now he sometimes starts out of his sleep in a sudden

way and awakes all trembling until I can coax him back to his usual

placidity. However, thank God, these occasions grow less frequent as the

days go on, and they will in time pass away altogether, I trust. And now

I have told you my news, let me ask yours. When are you to be married,

and where, and who is to perform the ceremony, and what are you to wear,

and is it to be a public or a private wedding? Tell me all about it,

dear; tell me all about everything, for there is nothing which interests

you which will not be dear to me. Jonathan asks me to send his

‘respectful duty,’ but I do not think that is good enough from the

junior partner of the important firm Hawkins & Harker; and so, as you

love me, and he loves me, and I love you with all the moods and tenses

of the verb, I send you simply his ‘love’ instead. Good-bye, my dearest

Lucy, and all blessings on you.

“Yours,

“MINA HARKER.”

_Report from Patrick Hennessey, M. D., M. R. C. S. L. K. Q. C. P. I.,

etc., etc., to John Seward, M. D._

“_20 September._

“My dear Sir,--

“In accordance with your wishes, I enclose report of the conditions of

everything left in my charge.... With regard to patient, Renfield, there

is more to say. He has had another outbreak, which might have had a

dreadful ending, but which, as it fortunately happened, was unattended

with any unhappy results. This afternoon a carrier’s cart with two men

made a call at the empty house whose grounds abut on ours--the house to

which, you will remember, the patient twice ran away. The men stopped at

our gate to ask the porter their way, as they were strangers. I was

myself looking out of the study window, having a smoke after dinner, and

saw one of them come up to the house. As he passed the window of

Renfield’s room, the patient began to rate him from within, and called

him all the foul names he could lay his tongue to. The man, who seemed a

decent fellow enough, contented himself by telling him to “shut up for a

foul-mouthed beggar,” whereon our man accused him of robbing him and

wanting to murder him and said that he would hinder him if he were to

swing for it. I opened the window and signed to the man not to notice,

so he contented himself after looking the place over and making up his

mind as to what kind of a place he had got to by saying: ‘Lor’ bless

yer, sir, I wouldn’t mind what was said to me in a bloomin’ madhouse. I

pity ye and the guv’nor for havin’ to live in the house with a wild

beast like that.’ Then he asked his way civilly enough, and I told him

where the gate of the empty house was; he went away, followed by threats

and curses and revilings from our man. I went down to see if I could

make out any cause for his anger, since he is usually such a

well-behaved man, and except his violent fits nothing of the kind had

ever occurred. I found him, to my astonishment, quite composed and most

genial in his manner. I tried to get him to talk of the incident, but he

blandly asked me questions as to what I meant, and led me to believe

that he was completely oblivious of the affair. It was, I am sorry to

say, however, only another instance of his cunning, for within half an

hour I heard of him again. This time he had broken out through the

window of his room, and was running down the avenue. I called to the

attendants to follow me, and ran after him, for I feared he was intent

on some mischief. My fear was justified when I saw the same cart which

had passed before coming down the road, having on it some great wooden

boxes. The men were wiping their foreheads, and were flushed in the

face, as if with violent exercise. Before I could get up to him the

patient rushed at them, and pulling one of them off the cart, began to

knock his head against the ground. If I had not seized him just at the

moment I believe he would have killed the man there and then. The other

fellow jumped down and struck him over the head with the butt-end of his