This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being

eagerly questioned by his wife and five daughters at once.

After amusing himself some time with their curiosity, he thus

explained:--“About a month ago I received this letter, and about a

fortnight ago I answered it; for I thought it a case of some delicacy,

and requiring early attention. It is from my cousin, Mr. Collins, who,

when I am dead, may turn you all out of this house as soon as he

pleases.”

“Oh, my dear,” cried his wife, “I cannot bear to hear that mentioned.

Pray do not talk of that odious man. I do think it is the hardest thing

in the world, that your estate should be entailed away from your own

children; and I am sure, if I had been you, I should have tried long ago

to do something or other about it.”

Jane and Elizabeth attempted to explain to her the nature of an entail.

They had often attempted it before: but it was a subject on which Mrs.

Bennet was beyond the reach of reason; and she continued to rail

bitterly against the cruelty of settling an estate away from a family of

five daughters, in favour of a man whom nobody cared anything about.

“It certainly is a most iniquitous affair,” said Mr. Bennet; “and

nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn.

But if you will listen to his letter, you may, perhaps, be a little

softened by his manner of expressing himself.”

“No, that I am sure I shall not: and I think it was very impertinent of

him to write to you at all, and very hypocritical. I hate such false

friends. Why could not he keep on quarrelling with you, as his father

did before him?”

“Why, indeed, he does seem to have had some filial scruples on that

head, as you will hear.”

 /* RIGHT “Hunsford, near Westerham, Kent, _15th October_. */

“Dear Sir,

 “The disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late honoured

 father always gave me much uneasiness; and, since I have had the

 misfortune to lose him, I have frequently wished to heal the

 breach: but, for some time, I was kept back by my own doubts,

 fearing lest it might seem disrespectful to his memory for me to be

 on good terms with anyone with whom it had always pleased him to be

 at variance.”--‘There, Mrs. Bennet.’--“My mind, however, is now

 made up on the subject; for, having received ordination at Easter,

 I have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of

 the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de Bourgh, widow of Sir Lewis

 de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to the

 valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest

 endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her

 Ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies

 which are instituted by the Church of England. As a clergyman,

 moreover, I feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing

 of peace in all families within the reach of my influence; and on

 these grounds I flatter myself that my present overtures of

 good-will are highly commendable, and that the circumstance of my

 being next in the entail of Longbourn estate will be kindly

 overlooked on your side, and not lead you to reject the offered

 olive branch. I cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the

 means of injuring your amiable daughters, and beg leave to

 apologize for it, as well as to assure you of my readiness to make

 them every possible amends; but of this hereafter. If you should

 have no objection to receive me into your house, I propose myself

 the satisfaction of waiting on you and your family, Monday,

 November 18th, by four o’clock, and shall probably trespass on your

 hospitality till the Saturday se’nnight following, which I can do

 without any inconvenience, as Lady Catherine is far from objecting

 to my occasional absence on a Sunday, provided that some other

 clergyman is engaged to do the duty of the day. I remain, dear sir,

 with respectful compliments to your lady and daughters, your

 well-wisher and friend,

“WILLIAM COLLINS.”

“At four o’clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman,”

said Mr. Bennet, as he folded up the letter. “He seems to be a most

conscientious and polite young man, upon my word; and, I doubt not, will

prove a valuable acquaintance, especially if Lady Catherine should be so

indulgent as to let him come to us again.”

“There is some sense in what he says about the girls, however; and, if

he is disposed to make them any amends, I shall not be the person to

discourage him.”

“Though it is difficult,” said Jane, “to guess in what way he can mean

to make us the atonement he thinks our due, the wish is certainly to his

credit.”

Elizabeth was chiefly struck with his extraordinary deference for Lady

Catherine, and his kind intention of christening, marrying, and burying

his parishioners whenever it were required.

“He must be an oddity, I think,” said she. “I cannot make him out. There

is something very pompous in his style. And what can he mean by

apologizing for being next in the entail? We cannot suppose he would

help it, if he could. Can he be a sensible man, sir?”