And from this paper my brother read that catastrophic dispatch of the

Commander-in-Chief:

“The Martians are able to discharge enormous clouds of a black and

poisonous vapour by means of rockets. They have smothered our

batteries, destroyed Richmond, Kingston, and Wimbledon, and are

advancing slowly towards London, destroying everything on the way. It

is impossible to stop them. There is no safety from the Black Smoke but

in instant flight.”

That was all, but it was enough. The whole population of the great

six-million city was stirring, slipping, running; presently it would be

pouring _en masse_ northward.

“Black Smoke!” the voices cried. “Fire!”

The bells of the neighbouring church made a jangling tumult, a cart

carelessly driven smashed, amid shrieks and curses, against the water

trough up the street. Sickly yellow lights went to and fro in the

houses, and some of the passing cabs flaunted unextinguished lamps. And

overhead the dawn was growing brighter, clear and steady and calm.

He heard footsteps running to and fro in the rooms, and up and down

stairs behind him. His landlady came to the door, loosely wrapped in

dressing gown and shawl; her husband followed, ejaculating.

As my brother began to realise the import of all these things, he

turned hastily to his own room, put all his available money—some ten

pounds altogether—into his pockets, and went out again into the

streets.

XV.

WHAT HAD HAPPENED IN SURREY.

It was while the curate had sat and talked so wildly to me under the

hedge in the flat meadows near Halliford, and while my brother was

watching the fugitives stream over Westminster Bridge, that the

Martians had resumed the offensive. So far as one can ascertain from

the conflicting accounts that have been put forth, the majority of them

remained busied with preparations in the Horsell pit until nine that

night, hurrying on some operation that disengaged huge volumes of green

smoke.

But three certainly came out about eight o’clock and, advancing slowly

and cautiously, made their way through Byfleet and Pyrford towards

Ripley and Weybridge, and so came in sight of the expectant batteries

against the setting sun. These Martians did not advance in a body, but

in a line, each perhaps a mile and a half from his nearest fellow. They

communicated with one another by means of sirenlike howls, running up

and down the scale from one note to another.

It was this howling and firing of the guns at Ripley and St. George’s

Hill that we had heard at Upper Halliford. The Ripley gunners,

unseasoned artillery volunteers who ought never to have been placed in

such a position, fired one wild, premature, ineffectual volley, and

bolted on horse and foot through the deserted village, while the

Martian, without using his Heat-Ray, walked serenely over their guns,

stepped gingerly among them, passed in front of them, and so came

unexpectedly upon the guns in Painshill Park, which he destroyed.

The St. George’s Hill men, however, were better led or of a better

mettle. Hidden by a pine wood as they were, they seem to have been

quite unsuspected by the Martian nearest to them. They laid their guns

as deliberately as if they had been on parade, and fired at about a

thousand yards’ range.

The shells flashed all round him, and he was seen to advance a few

paces, stagger, and go down. Everybody yelled together, and the guns

were reloaded in frantic haste. The overthrown Martian set up a

prolonged ululation, and immediately a second glittering giant,

answering him, appeared over the trees to the south. It would seem that

a leg of the tripod had been smashed by one of the shells. The whole of

the second volley flew wide of the Martian on the ground, and,

simultaneously, both his companions brought their Heat-Rays to bear on

the battery. The ammunition blew up, the pine trees all about the guns

flashed into fire, and only one or two of the men who were already

running over the crest of the hill escaped.

After this it would seem that the three took counsel together and

halted, and the scouts who were watching them report that they remained

absolutely stationary for the next half hour. The Martian who had been

overthrown crawled tediously out of his hood, a small brown figure,

oddly suggestive from that distance of a speck of blight, and

apparently engaged in the repair of his support. About nine he had

finished, for his cowl was then seen above the trees again.

It was a few minutes past nine that night when these three sentinels

were joined by four other Martians, each carrying a thick black tube. A

similar tube was handed to each of the three, and the seven proceeded

to distribute themselves at equal distances along a curved line between

St. George’s Hill, Weybridge, and the village of Send, southwest of