“No, my dear; I think not. I have great hopes of finding him quite the

reverse. There is a mixture of servility and self-importance in his

letter which promises well. I am impatient to see him.”

“In point of composition,” said Mary, “his letter does not seem

defective. The idea of the olive branch perhaps is not wholly new, yet I

think it is well expressed.”

To Catherine and Lydia neither the letter nor its writer were in any

degree interesting. It was next to impossible that their cousin should

come in a scarlet coat, and it was now some weeks since they had

received pleasure from the society of a man in any other colour. As for

their mother, Mr. Collins’s letter had done away much of her ill-will,

and she was preparing to see him with a degree of composure which

astonished her husband and daughters.

Mr. Collins was punctual to his time, and was received with great

politeness by the whole family. Mr. Bennet indeed said little; but the

ladies were ready enough to talk, and Mr. Collins seemed neither in need

of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent himself. He was a tall,

heavy-looking young man of five-and-twenty. His air was grave and

stately, and his manners were very formal. He had not been long seated

before he complimented Mrs. Bennet on having so fine a family of

daughters, said he had heard much of their beauty, but that, in this

instance, fame had fallen short of the truth; and added, that he did not

doubt her seeing them all in due time well disposed of in marriage. This

gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers; but Mrs.

Bennet, who quarrelled with no compliments, answered most readily,--

“You are very kind, sir, I am sure; and I wish with all my heart it may

prove so; for else they will be destitute enough. Things are settled so

oddly.”

“You allude, perhaps, to the entail of this estate.”

“Ah, sir, I do indeed. It is a grievous affair to my poor girls, you

must confess. Not that I mean to find fault with _you_, for such things,

I know, are all chance in this world. There is no knowing how estates

will go when once they come to be entailed.”

“I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and

could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing

forward and precipitate. But I can assure the young ladies that I come

prepared to admire them. At present I will not say more, but, perhaps,

when we are better acquainted----”

He was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and the girls smiled on each

other. They were not the only objects of Mr. Collins’s admiration. The

hall, the dining-room, and all its furniture, were examined and praised;

and his commendation of everything would have touched Mrs. Bennet’s

heart, but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his

own future property. The dinner, too, in its turn, was highly admired;

and he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellence of its

cookery was owing. But here he was set right by Mrs. Bennet, who assured

him, with some asperity, that they were very well able to keep a good

cook, and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen. He begged

pardon for having displeased her. In a softened tone she declared

herself not at all offended; but he continued to apologize for about a

quarter of an hour.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XIV

[Illustration]

During dinner, Mr. Bennet scarcely spoke at all; but when the servants

were withdrawn, he thought it time to have some conversation with his

guest, and therefore started a subject in which he expected him to

shine, by observing that he seemed very fortunate in his patroness. Lady

Catherine de Bourgh’s attention to his wishes, and consideration for his

comfort, appeared very remarkable. Mr. Bennet could not have chosen

better. Mr. Collins was eloquent in her praise. The subject elevated him

to more than usual solemnity of manner; and with a most important aspect

he protested that he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in a

person of rank--such affability and condescension, as he had himself

experienced from Lady Catherine. She had been graciously pleased to

approve of both the discourses which he had already had the honour of

preaching before her. She had also asked him twice to dine at Rosings,

and had sent for him only the Saturday before, to make up her pool of

quadrille in the evening. Lady Catherine was reckoned proud by many