Pearl laughed, and attempted to pull away her hand. But the minister

held it fast.

“A moment longer, my child!” said he.

“But wilt thou promise,” asked Pearl, “to take my hand, and mother’s

hand, to-morrow noontide?”

“Not then, Pearl,” said the minister, “but another time.”

“And what other time?” persisted the child.

“At the great judgment day,” whispered the minister,—and, strangely

enough, the sense that he was a professional teacher of the truth

impelled him to answer the child so. “Then, and there, before the

judgment-seat, thy mother, and thou, and I must stand together. But

the daylight of this world shall not see our meeting!”

Pearl laughed again.

[Illustration: “They stood in the noon of that strange splendor”]

But, before Mr. Dimmesdale had done speaking, a light gleamed far and

wide over all the muffled sky. It was doubtless caused by one of those

meteors, which the night-watcher may so often observe burning out to

waste, in the vacant regions of the atmosphere. So powerful was its

radiance, that it thoroughly illuminated the dense medium of cloud

betwixt the sky and earth. The great vault brightened, like the dome

of an immense lamp. It showed the familiar scene of the street, with

the distinctness of mid-day, but also with the awfulness that is

always imparted to familiar objects by an unaccustomed light. The

wooden houses, with their jutting stories and quaint gable-peaks; the

doorsteps and thresholds, with the early grass springing up about

them; the garden-plots, black with freshly turned earth; the

wheel-track, little worn, and, even in the market-place, margined with

green on either side;—all were visible, but with a singularity of

aspect that seemed to give another moral interpretation to the things

of this world than they had ever borne before. And there stood the

minister, with his hand over his heart; and Hester Prynne, with the

embroidered letter glimmering on her bosom; and little Pearl, herself

a symbol, and the connecting link between those two. They stood in the

noon of that strange and solemn splendor, as if it were the light that

is to reveal all secrets, and the daybreak that shall unite all who

belong to one another.

There was witchcraft in little Pearl’s eyes, and her face, as she

glanced upward at the minister, wore that naughty smile which made its

expression frequently so elvish. She withdrew her hand from Mr.

Dimmesdale’s, and pointed across the street. But he clasped both his

hands over his breast, and cast his eyes towards the zenith.

Nothing was more common, in those days, than to interpret all meteoric

appearances, and other natural phenomena, that occurred with less

regularity than the rise and set of sun and moon, as so many

revelations from a supernatural source. Thus, a blazing spear, a sword

of flame, a bow, or a sheaf of arrows, seen in the midnight sky,

prefigured Indian warfare. Pestilence was known to have been foreboded

by a shower of crimson light. We doubt whether any marked event, for

good or evil, ever befell New England, from its settlement down to

Revolutionary times, of which the inhabitants had not been previously

warned by some spectacle of this nature. Not seldom, it had been seen

by multitudes. Oftener, however, its credibility rested on the faith

of some lonely eye-witness, who beheld the wonder through the colored,

magnifying, and distorting medium of his imagination, and shaped it

more distinctly in his after-thought. It was, indeed, a majestic idea,

that the destiny of nations should be revealed, in these awful

hieroglyphics, on the cope of heaven. A scroll so wide might not be

deemed too expansive for Providence to write a people’s doom upon. The

belief was a favorite one with our forefathers, as betokening that

their infant commonwealth was under a celestial guardianship of

peculiar intimacy and strictness. But what shall we say, when an

individual discovers a revelation addressed to himself alone, on the

same vast sheet of record! In such a case, it could only be the

symptom of a highly disordered mental state, when a man, rendered

morbidly self-contemplative by long, intense, and secret pain, had

extended his egotism over the whole expanse of nature, until the

firmament itself should appear no more than a fitting page for his

soul’s history and fate!

We impute it, therefore, solely to the disease in his own eye and

heart, that the minister, looking upward to the zenith, beheld there

the appearance of an immense letter,—the letter A,—marked out in

lines of dull red light. Not but the meteor may have shown itself at

that point, burning duskily through a veil of cloud; but with no such

shape as his guilty imagination gave it; or, at least, with so little

definiteness, that another’s guilt might have seen another symbol in

it.