doctor seeing about them.

_Letter, Samuel F. Billington & Son, Solicitors, Whitby, to Messrs.

Carter, Paterson & Co., London._

“_17 August._

“Dear Sirs,--

“Herewith please receive invoice of goods sent by Great Northern

Railway. Same are to be delivered at Carfax, near Purfleet, immediately

on receipt at goods station King’s Cross. The house is at present empty,

but enclosed please find keys, all of which are labelled.

“You will please deposit the boxes, fifty in number, which form the

consignment, in the partially ruined building forming part of the house

and marked ‘A’ on rough diagram enclosed. Your agent will easily

recognise the locality, as it is the ancient chapel of the mansion. The

goods leave by the train at 9:30 to-night, and will be due at King’s

Cross at 4:30 to-morrow afternoon. As our client wishes the delivery

made as soon as possible, we shall be obliged by your having teams ready

at King’s Cross at the time named and forthwith conveying the goods to

destination. In order to obviate any delays possible through any routine

requirements as to payment in your departments, we enclose cheque

herewith for ten pounds (£10), receipt of which please acknowledge.

Should the charge be less than this amount, you can return balance; if

greater, we shall at once send cheque for difference on hearing from

you. You are to leave the keys on coming away in the main hall of the

house, where the proprietor may get them on his entering the house by

means of his duplicate key.

“Pray do not take us as exceeding the bounds of business courtesy in

pressing you in all ways to use the utmost expedition.

_“We are, dear Sirs,

“Faithfully yours,

“SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON & SON.”_

_Letter, Messrs. Carter, Paterson & Co., London, to Messrs. Billington &

Son, Whitby._

“_21 August._

“Dear Sirs,--

“We beg to acknowledge £10 received and to return cheque £1 17s. 9d,

amount of overplus, as shown in receipted account herewith. Goods are

delivered in exact accordance with instructions, and keys left in parcel

in main hall, as directed.

“We are, dear Sirs,

“Yours respectfully.

“_Pro_ CARTER, PATERSON & CO.”

_Mina Murray’s Journal._

_18 August._--I am happy to-day, and write sitting on the seat in the

churchyard. Lucy is ever so much better. Last night she slept well all

night, and did not disturb me once. The roses seem coming back already

to her cheeks, though she is still sadly pale and wan-looking. If she

were in any way anæmic I could understand it, but she is not. She is in

gay spirits and full of life and cheerfulness. All the morbid reticence

seems to have passed from her, and she has just reminded me, as if I

needed any reminding, of _that_ night, and that it was here, on this

very seat, I found her asleep. As she told me she tapped playfully with

the heel of her boot on the stone slab and said:--

“My poor little feet didn’t make much noise then! I daresay poor old Mr.

Swales would have told me that it was because I didn’t want to wake up

Geordie.” As she was in such a communicative humour, I asked her if she

had dreamed at all that night. Before she answered, that sweet, puckered

look came into her forehead, which Arthur--I call him Arthur from her

habit--says he loves; and, indeed, I don’t wonder that he does. Then she

went on in a half-dreaming kind of way, as if trying to recall it to

herself:--

“I didn’t quite dream; but it all seemed to be real. I only wanted to be

here in this spot--I don’t know why, for I was afraid of something--I

don’t know what. I remember, though I suppose I was asleep, passing

through the streets and over the bridge. A fish leaped as I went by, and

I leaned over to look at it, and I heard a lot of dogs howling--the

whole town seemed as if it must be full of dogs all howling at once--as

I went up the steps. Then I had a vague memory of something long and

dark with red eyes, just as we saw in the sunset, and something very

sweet and very bitter all around me at once; and then I seemed sinking

into deep green water, and there was a singing in my ears, as I have

heard there is to drowning men; and then everything seemed passing away

from me; my soul seemed to go out from my body and float about the air.

I seem to remember that once the West Lighthouse was right under me,

and then there was a sort of agonising feeling, as if I were in an

earthquake, and I came back and found you shaking my body. I saw you do