For a long time I drifted, so painful and weary was I after the

violence I had been through, and so intense the heat upon the water.

Then my fears got the better of me again, and I resumed my paddling.

The sun scorched my bare back. At last, as the bridge at Walton was

coming into sight round the bend, my fever and faintness overcame my

fears, and I landed on the Middlesex bank and lay down, deadly sick,

amid the long grass. I suppose the time was then about four or five

o’clock. I got up presently, walked perhaps half a mile without meeting

a soul, and then lay down again in the shadow of a hedge. I seem to

remember talking, wanderingly, to myself during that last spurt. I was

also very thirsty, and bitterly regretful I had drunk no more water. It

is a curious thing that I felt angry with my wife; I cannot account for

it, but my impotent desire to reach Leatherhead worried me excessively.

I do not clearly remember the arrival of the curate, so that probably I

dozed. I became aware of him as a seated figure in soot-smudged shirt

sleeves, and with his upturned, clean-shaven face staring at a faint

flickering that danced over the sky. The sky was what is called a

mackerel sky—rows and rows of faint down-plumes of cloud, just tinted

with the midsummer sunset.

I sat up, and at the rustle of my motion he looked at me quickly.

“Have you any water?” I asked abruptly.

He shook his head.

“You have been asking for water for the last hour,” he said.

For a moment we were silent, taking stock of each other. I dare say he

found me a strange enough figure, naked, save for my water-soaked

trousers and socks, scalded, and my face and shoulders blackened by the

smoke. His face was a fair weakness, his chin retreated, and his hair

lay in crisp, almost flaxen curls on his low forehead; his eyes were

rather large, pale blue, and blankly staring. He spoke abruptly,

looking vacantly away from me.

“What does it mean?” he said. “What do these things mean?”

I stared at him and made no answer.

He extended a thin white hand and spoke in almost a complaining tone.

“Why are these things permitted? What sins have we done? The morning

service was over, I was walking through the roads to clear my brain for

the afternoon, and then—fire, earthquake, death! As if it were Sodom

and Gomorrah! All our work undone, all the work—— What are these

Martians?”

“What are we?” I answered, clearing my throat.

He gripped his knees and turned to look at me again. For half a minute,

perhaps, he stared silently.

“I was walking through the roads to clear my brain,” he said. “And

suddenly—fire, earthquake, death!”

He relapsed into silence, with his chin now sunken almost to his knees.

Presently he began waving his hand.

“All the work—all the Sunday schools—What have we done—what has

Weybridge done? Everything gone—everything destroyed. The church! We

rebuilt it only three years ago. Gone! Swept out of existence! Why?”

Another pause, and he broke out again like one demented.

“The smoke of her burning goeth up for ever and ever!” he shouted.

His eyes flamed, and he pointed a lean finger in the direction of

Weybridge.

By this time I was beginning to take his measure. The tremendous

tragedy in which he had been involved—it was evident he was a fugitive

from Weybridge—had driven him to the very verge of his reason.

“Are we far from Sunbury?” I said, in a matter-of-fact tone.

“What are we to do?” he asked. “Are these creatures everywhere? Has the

earth been given over to them?”

“Are we far from Sunbury?”

“Only this morning I officiated at early celebration——”

“Things have changed,” I said, quietly. “You must keep your head. There

is still hope.”

“Hope!”

“Yes. Plentiful hope—for all this destruction!”

I began to explain my view of our position. He listened at first, but

as I went on the interest dawning in his eyes gave place to their

former stare, and his regard wandered from me.