purposes could not be other than malevolent. The very contiguity of

his enemy, beneath whatever mask the latter might conceal himself, was

enough to disturb the magnetic sphere of a being so sensitive as

Arthur Dimmesdale. There had been a period when Hester was less alive

to this consideration; or, perhaps, in the misanthropy of her own

trouble, she left the minister to bear what she might picture to

herself as a more tolerable doom. But of late, since the night of his

vigil, all her sympathies towards him had been both softened and

invigorated. She now read his heart more accurately. She doubted not,

that the continual presence of Roger Chillingworth,—the secret poison

of his malignity, infecting all the air about him,—and his authorized

interference, as a physician, with the minister’s physical and

spiritual infirmities,—that these bad opportunities had been turned

to a cruel purpose. By means of them, the sufferer’s conscience had

been kept in an irritated state, the tendency of which was, not to

cure by wholesome pain, but to disorganize and corrupt his spiritual

being. Its result, on earth, could hardly fail to be insanity, and

hereafter, that eternal alienation from the Good and True, of which

madness is perhaps the earthly type.

Such was the ruin to which she had brought the man, once,—nay, why

should we not speak it?—still so passionately loved! Hester felt that

the sacrifice of the clergyman’s good name, and death itself, as she

had already told Roger Chillingworth, would have been infinitely

preferable to the alternative which she had taken upon herself to

choose. And now, rather than have had this grievous wrong to confess,

she would gladly have lain down on the forest-leaves, and died there,

at Arthur Dimmesdale’s feet.

“O Arthur,” cried she, “forgive me! In all things else, I have striven

to be true! Truth was the one virtue which I might have held fast, and

did hold fast, through all extremity; save when thy good,—thy

life,—thy fame,—were put in question! Then I consented to a

deception. But a lie is never good, even though death threaten on the

other side! Dost thou not see what I would say? That old man!—the

physician!—he whom they call Roger Chillingworth!—he was my

husband!”

[Illustration: “Wilt thou yet forgive me?”]

The minister looked at her, for an instant, with all that violence of

passion, which—intermixed, in more shapes than one, with his higher,

purer, softer qualities—was, in fact, the portion of him which the

Devil claimed, and through which he sought to win the rest. Never was

there a blacker or a fiercer frown than Hester now encountered. For

the brief space that it lasted, it was a dark transfiguration. But his

character had been so much enfeebled by suffering, that even its

lower energies were incapable of more than a temporary struggle. He

sank down on the ground, and buried his face in his hands.

“I might have known it,” murmured he. “I did know it! Was not the

secret told me, in the natural recoil of my heart, at the first sight

of him, and as often as I have seen him since? Why did I not

understand? O Hester Prynne, thou little, little knowest all the

horror of this thing! And the shame!—the indelicacy!—the horrible

ugliness of this exposure of a sick and guilty heart to the very eye

that would gloat over it! Woman, woman, thou art accountable for this!

I cannot forgive thee!”

“Thou shalt forgive me!” cried Hester, flinging herself on the fallen

leaves beside him. “Let God punish! Thou shalt forgive!”

With sudden and desperate tenderness, she threw her arms around him,

and pressed his head against her bosom; little caring though his cheek

rested on the scarlet letter. He would have released himself, but

strove in vain to do so. Hester would not set him free, lest he should

look her sternly in the face. All the world had frowned on her,—for

seven long years had it frowned upon this lonely woman,—and still she

bore it all, nor ever once turned away her firm, sad eyes. Heaven,

likewise, had frowned upon her, and she had not died. But the frown of

this pale, weak, sinful, and sorrow-stricken man was what Hester could

not bear and live!

“Wilt thou yet forgive me?” she repeated, over and over again. “Wilt