symptoms of commercial life; except, perhaps, a bark or brig, half-way

down its melancholy length, discharging hides; or, nearer at hand, a

Nova Scotia schooner, pitching out her cargo of firewood,—at the

head, I say, of this dilapidated wharf, which the tide often

overflows, and along which, at the base and in the rear of the row of

buildings, the track of many languid years is seen in a border of

unthrifty grass,—here, with a view from its front windows adown this

not very enlivening prospect, and thence across the harbor, stands a

spacious edifice of brick. From the loftiest point of its roof, during

precisely three and a half hours of each forenoon, floats or droops,

in breeze or calm, the banner of the republic; but with the thirteen

stripes turned vertically, instead of horizontally, and thus

indicating that a civil, and not a military post of Uncle Sam’s

government is here established. Its front is ornamented with a portico

of half a dozen wooden pillars, supporting a balcony, beneath which a

flight of wide granite steps descends towards the street. Over the

entrance hovers an enormous specimen of the American eagle, with

outspread wings, a shield before her breast, and, if I recollect

aright, a bunch of intermingled thunderbolts and barbed arrows in each

claw. With the customary infirmity of temper that characterizes this

unhappy fowl, she appears, by the fierceness of her beak and eye, and

the general truculency of her attitude, to threaten mischief to the

inoffensive community; and especially to warn all citizens, careful of

their safety, against intruding on the premises which she overshadows

with her wings. Nevertheless, vixenly as she looks, many people are

seeking, at this very moment, to shelter themselves under the wing of

the federal eagle; imagining, I presume, that her bosom has all the

softness and snugness of an eider-down pillow. But she has no great

tenderness, even in her best of moods, and, sooner or later,—oftener

soon than late,—is apt to fling off her nestlings, with a scratch of

her claw, a dab of her beak, or a rankling wound from her barbed

arrows.

The pavement round about the above-described edifice—which we may as

well name at once as the Custom-House of the port—has grass enough

growing in its chinks to show that it has not, of late days, been worn

by any multitudinous resort of business. In some months of the year,

however, there often chances a forenoon when affairs move onward with

a livelier tread. Such occasions might remind the elderly citizen of

that period before the last war with England, when Salem was a port by

itself; not scorned, as she is now, by her own merchants and

ship-owners, who permit her wharves to crumble to ruin, while their

ventures go to swell, needlessly and imperceptibly, the mighty flood

of commerce at New York or Boston. On some such morning, when three or

four vessels happen to have arrived at once,—usually from Africa or

South America,—or to be on the verge of their departure thitherward,

there is a sound of frequent feet, passing briskly up and down the

granite steps. Here, before his own wife has greeted him, you may

greet the sea-flushed shipmaster, just in port, with his vessel’s

papers under his arm, in a tarnished tin box. Here, too, comes his

owner, cheerful or sombre, gracious or in the sulks, accordingly as

his scheme of the now accomplished voyage has been realized in

merchandise that will readily be turned to gold, or has buried him

under a bulk of incommodities, such as nobody will care to rid him of.

Here, likewise,—the germ of the wrinkle-browed, grizzly-bearded,

care-worn merchant,—we have the smart young clerk, who gets the taste

of traffic as a wolf-cub does of blood, and already sends adventures

in his master’s ships, when he had better be sailing mimic-boats upon

a mill-pond. Another figure in the scene is the outward-bound sailor

in quest of a protection; or the recently arrived one, pale and

feeble, seeking a passport to the hospital. Nor must we forget the

captains of the rusty little schooners that bring firewood from the

British provinces; a rough-looking set of tarpaulins, without the

alertness of the Yankee aspect, but contributing an item of no slight

importance to our decaying trade.

Cluster all these individuals together, as they sometimes were, with

other miscellaneous ones to diversify the group, and, for the time

being, it made the Custom-House a stirring scene. More frequently,

however, on ascending the steps, you would discern—in the entry, if

it were summer time, or in their appropriate rooms, if wintry or

inclement weather—a row of venerable figures, sitting in

old-fashioned chairs, which were tipped on their hind legs back

against the wall. Oftentimes they were asleep, but occasionally might

be heard talking together, in voices between speech and a snore, and

with that lack of energy that distinguishes the occupants of

almshouses, and all other human beings who depend for subsistence on

charity, on monopolized labor, or anything else, but their own

independent exertions. These old gentlemen—seated, like Matthew, at

the receipt of customs, but not very liable to be summoned thence,

like him, for apostolic errands—were Custom-House officers.

Furthermore, on the left hand as you enter the front door, is a

certain room or office, about fifteen feet square, and of a lofty

height; with two of its arched windows commanding a view of the

aforesaid dilapidated wharf, and the third looking across a narrow