therefore showed an exaggerated courtesy towards the three gentlemen,

did not even dare to sit on their own chairs; his father leant against

the door with his right hand pushed in between two buttons on his

uniform coat; his mother, though, was offered a seat by one of the

gentlemen and sat—leaving the chair where the gentleman happened to

have placed it—out of the way in a corner.

His sister began to play; father and mother paid close attention, one

on each side, to the movements of her hands. Drawn in by the playing,

Gregor had dared to come forward a little and already had his head in

the living room. Before, he had taken great pride in how considerate he

was but now it hardly occurred to him that he had become so thoughtless

about the others. What’s more, there was now all the more reason to

keep himself hidden as he was covered in the dust that lay everywhere

in his room and flew up at the slightest movement; he carried threads,

hairs, and remains of food about on his back and sides; he was much too

indifferent to everything now to lay on his back and wipe himself on

the carpet like he had used to do several times a day. And despite this

condition, he was not too shy to move forward a little onto the

immaculate floor of the living room.

No-one noticed him, though. The family was totally preoccupied with the

violin playing; at first, the three gentlemen had put their hands in

their pockets and come up far too close behind the music stand to look

at all the notes being played, and they must have disturbed Gregor’s

sister, but soon, in contrast with the family, they withdrew back to

the window with their heads sunk and talking to each other at half

volume, and they stayed by the window while Gregor’s father observed

them anxiously. It really now seemed very obvious that they had

expected to hear some beautiful or entertaining violin playing but had

been disappointed, that they had had enough of the whole performance

and it was only now out of politeness that they allowed their peace to

be disturbed. It was especially unnerving, the way they all blew the

smoke from their cigarettes upwards from their mouth and noses. Yet

Gregor’s sister was playing so beautifully. Her face was leant to one

side, following the lines of music with a careful and melancholy

expression. Gregor crawled a little further forward, keeping his head

close to the ground so that he could meet her eyes if the chance came.

Was he an animal if music could captivate him so? It seemed to him that

he was being shown the way to the unknown nourishment he had been

yearning for. He was determined to make his way forward to his sister

and tug at her skirt to show her she might come into his room with her

violin, as no-one appreciated her playing here as much as he would. He

never wanted to let her out of his room, not while he lived, anyway;

his shocking appearance should, for once, be of some use to him; he

wanted to be at every door of his room at once to hiss and spit at the

attackers; his sister should not be forced to stay with him, though,

but stay of her own free will; she would sit beside him on the couch

with her ear bent down to him while he told her how he had always

intended to send her to the conservatory, how he would have told

everyone about it last Christmas—had Christmas really come and gone

already?—if this misfortune hadn’t got in the way, and refuse to let

anyone dissuade him from it. On hearing all this, his sister would

break out in tears of emotion, and Gregor would climb up to her

shoulder and kiss her neck, which, since she had been going out to

work, she had kept free without any necklace or collar.

“Mr. Samsa!”, shouted the middle gentleman to Gregor’s father,

pointing, without wasting any more words, with his forefinger at Gregor

as he slowly moved forward. The violin went silent, the middle of the

three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, shaking his head, and

then looked back at Gregor. His father seemed to think it more

important to calm the three gentlemen before driving Gregor out, even

though they were not at all upset and seemed to think Gregor was more

entertaining than the violin playing had been. He rushed up to them

with his arms spread out and attempted to drive them back into their

room at the same time as trying to block their view of Gregor with his

body. Now they did become a little annoyed, and it was not clear

whether it was his father’s behaviour that annoyed them or the dawning

realisation that they had had a neighbour like Gregor in the next room

without knowing it. They asked Gregor’s father for explanations, raised

their arms like he had, tugged excitedly at their beards and moved back

towards their room only very slowly. Meanwhile Gregor’s sister had

overcome the despair she had fallen into when her playing was suddenly

interrupted. She had let her hands drop and let violin and bow hang

limply for a while but continued to look at the music as if still

playing, but then she suddenly pulled herself together, lay the

instrument on her mother’s lap who still sat laboriously struggling for

breath where she was, and ran into the next room which, under pressure

from her father, the three gentlemen were more quickly moving toward.