"Yes; war orders. And we're up to our neck in them. This war is going

to be almost as much fought in the air as on the ground, Mr. Swift."

"I can well believe that," agreed Tom. "Won't you have a chair?"

"Well, we didn't come to stay long," said Mr. Gale with a laugh, which,

somehow or other, grated on Tom and seemed to him insincere. "Our

business is such a rushing one that we don't spend much time anywhere.

To get down to brass tacks, we have come to see you to put a certain

proposition before you, Mr. Swift. You are open to a business

proposition, aren't you?"

"Oh, yes," answered Tom. "That's what I'm here for."

"I thought so. Well, now I'll tell you, in brief, what we want, and

then Mr. Ware, our treasurer, can elaborate on it, and give you facts

and figures about which I never bother myself. I attend to the

executive end and leave the details to others," and again came that

laugh which Tom did not like.

"You came here to make me an offer?" asked the young inventor,

wondering to which of his many machines the visitors had reference.

"Yes," went on Mr. Gale, "we came here to make you a big offer. In

short, Mr. Swift, we want you to work for our company, and we are

willing to pay you ten thousand dollars a year for the benefit of your

advice and your inventive abilities. Ten thousand dollars a year! Do

you accept?"

CHAPTER IV

MR. DAMON'S WHIZZER

Characteristic it was of Tom Swift that he did not seem at all

surprised at what most young men would call a liberal offer. Certainly

not many youths of Tom's age would be sought out by a big manufacturing

concern, and offered ten thousand dollars a year "right off the reel,"

as Ned Newton expressed it later. But Tom only smiled and shook his

head in negation.

"What!" cried Mr. Gale, "you mean you won't accept our offer?"

"I can't," answered Tom.

"You can't!" exclaimed the treasurer, Mr. Ware. "Oh, I see. Mr. Gale, a

word with you. Excuse us a moment," he added to Tom and his father.

The two men consulted in a corner of the library for a moment, and

then, with smiles on their faces, once more turned toward the young

inventor.

"Well, perhaps you are right, Tom Swift," said Mr. Gale. "Of course, we

recognize your talents and ability, but you cannot blame us for trying

to get talent, as well as material for our airships, in the cheapest

market. But we are not hide-bound, nor sticklers for any set sum. We'll

make that offer fifteen thousand dollars a year, if you will sign a

five-year contract and agree that we shall have first claim on anything

and everything you may patent or invent in that time. Now, how does

that strike you? Fifteen thousand dollars a year--paid weekly if you

wish, and our Mr. Ware, here, has a form of contract which can be fixed

up and signed within ten minutes, if you agree."

"Well, I don't like to be disagreeable," said Tom with a smile; "but,

really, as I said before, I can't accept your very kind offer. I may

say liberal offer. I appreciate that."

"You can't accept!" cried Mr. Gale.

"Are you sure you don't mean 'won't'?" asked Mr. Ware, in a half growl.

"You may call it that if you like," replied Tom, a bit coolly, for he

did not like the other's tone, "Only, as I say, I cannot accept. I have

other plans."

"Oh, you--" began the brusk treasurer, but Mr. Gale, the president of

the Universal Flying Machine Company, stopped his associate with a

warning look.

"Just a moment, Mr. Swift," begged the president. "Don't be hasty. We

are prepared to make you a last and final offer, and I do not believe

you can refuse it."

"Well, I certainly will not refuse it without hearing it," said Tom,

with a smile he meant to make good-natured. Yet, truth to tell, he did