covered and his sister would not be able to see him even if she bent

down. If she did not think this sheet was necessary then all she had to

do was take it off again, as it was clear enough that it was no

pleasure for Gregor to cut himself off so completely. She left the

sheet where it was. Gregor even thought he glimpsed a look of gratitude

one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet to see how

his sister liked the new arrangement.

For the first fourteen days, Gregor’s parents could not bring

themselves to come into the room to see him. He would often hear them

say how they appreciated all the new work his sister was doing even

though, before, they had seen her as a girl who was somewhat useless

and frequently been annoyed with her. But now the two of them, father

and mother, would often both wait outside the door of Gregor’s room

while his sister tidied up in there, and as soon as she went out again

she would have to tell them exactly how everything looked, what Gregor

had eaten, how he had behaved this time and whether, perhaps, any

slight improvement could be seen. His mother also wanted to go in and

visit Gregor relatively soon but his father and sister at first

persuaded her against it. Gregor listened very closely to all this, and

approved fully. Later, though, she had to be held back by force, which

made her call out: “Let me go and see Gregor, he is my unfortunate son!

Can’t you understand I have to see him?”, and Gregor would think to

himself that maybe it would be better if his mother came in, not every

day of course, but one day a week, perhaps; she could understand

everything much better than his sister who, for all her courage, was

still just a child after all, and really might not have had an adult’s

appreciation of the burdensome job she had taken on.

Gregor’s wish to see his mother was soon realised. Out of consideration

for his parents, Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during

the day, the few square meters of the floor did not give him much room

to crawl about, it was hard to just lie quietly through the night, his

food soon stopped giving him any pleasure at all, and so, to entertain

himself, he got into the habit of crawling up and down the walls and

ceiling. He was especially fond of hanging from the ceiling; it was

quite different from lying on the floor; he could breathe more freely;

his body had a light swing to it; and up there, relaxed and almost

happy, it might happen that he would surprise even himself by letting

go of the ceiling and landing on the floor with a crash. But now, of

course, he had far better control of his body than before and, even

with a fall as great as that, caused himself no damage. Very soon his

sister noticed Gregor’s new way of entertaining himself—he had, after

all, left traces of the adhesive from his feet as he crawled about—and

got it into her head to make it as easy as possible for him by removing

the furniture that got in his way, especially the chest of drawers and

the desk. Now, this was not something that she would be able to do by

herself; she did not dare to ask for help from her father; the sixteen

year old maid had carried on bravely since the cook had left but she

certainly would not have helped in this, she had even asked to be

allowed to keep the kitchen locked at all times and never to have to

open the door unless it was especially important; so his sister had no

choice but to choose some time when Gregor’s father was not there and

fetch his mother to help her. As she approached the room, Gregor could

hear his mother express her joy, but once at the door she went silent.

First, of course, his sister came in and looked round to see that

everything in the room was alright; and only then did she let her

mother enter. Gregor had hurriedly pulled the sheet down lower over the

couch and put more folds into it so that everything really looked as if

it had just been thrown down by chance. Gregor also refrained, this

time, from spying out from under the sheet; he gave up the chance to

see his mother until later and was simply glad that she had come. “You

can come in, he can’t be seen”, said his sister, obviously leading her

in by the hand. The old chest of drawers was too heavy for a pair of

feeble women to be heaving about, but Gregor listened as they pushed it

from its place, his sister always taking on the heaviest part of the

work for herself and ignoring her mother’s warnings that she would

strain herself. This lasted a very long time. After labouring at it for

fifteen minutes or more his mother said it would be better to leave the

chest where it was, for one thing it was too heavy for them to get the

job finished before Gregor’s father got home and leaving it in the

middle of the room it would be in his way even more, and for another

thing it wasn’t even sure that taking the furniture away would really

be any help to him. She thought just the opposite; the sight of the

bare walls saddened her right to her heart; and why wouldn’t Gregor

feel the same way about it, he’d been used to this furniture in his

room for a long time and it would make him feel abandoned to be in an

empty room like that. Then, quietly, almost whispering as if wanting

Gregor (whose whereabouts she did not know) to hear not even the tone