thrown a pitying glance towards her son! And now, through the chamber

which these spectral thoughts had made so ghastly, glided Hester

Prynne, leading along little Pearl, in her scarlet garb, and pointing

her forefinger, first at the scarlet letter on her bosom, and then at

the clergyman’s own breast.

None of these visions ever quite deluded him. At any moment, by an

effort of his will, he could discern substances through their misty

lack of substance, and convince himself that they were not solid in

their nature, like yonder table of carved oak, or that big, square,

leathern-bound and brazen-clasped volume of divinity. But, for all

that, they were, in one sense, the truest and most substantial things

which the poor minister now dealt with. It is the unspeakable misery

of a life so false as his, that it steals the pith and substance out

of whatever realities there are around us, and which were meant by

Heaven to be the spirit’s joy and nutriment. To the untrue man, the

whole universe is false,—it is impalpable,—it shrinks to nothing

within his grasp. And he himself, in so far as he shows himself in a

false light, becomes a shadow, or, indeed, ceases to exist. The only

truth that continued to give Mr. Dimmesdale a real existence on this

earth, was the anguish in his inmost soul, and the undissembled

expression of it in his aspect. Had he once found power to smile, and

wear a face of gayety, there would have been no such man!

On one of those ugly nights, which we have faintly hinted at, but

forborne to picture forth, the minister started from his chair. A new

thought had struck him. There might be a moment’s peace in it.

Attiring himself with as much care as if it had been for public

worship, and precisely in the same manner, he stole softly down the

staircase, undid the door, and issued forth.

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 XII.

 THE MINISTER’S VIGIL.

Walking in the shadow of a dream, as it were, and perhaps actually

under the influence of a species of somnambulism, Mr. Dimmesdale

reached the spot where, now so long since, Hester Prynne had lived

through her first hours of public ignominy. The same platform or

scaffold, black and weather-stained with the storm or sunshine of

seven long years, and foot-worn, too, with the tread of many culprits

who had since ascended it, remained standing beneath the balcony of

the meeting-house. The minister went up the steps.

It was an obscure night of early May. An unvaried pall of cloud

muffled the whole expanse of sky from zenith to horizon. If the same

multitude which had stood as eye-witnesses while Hester Prynne

sustained her punishment could now have been summoned forth, they

would have discerned no face above the platform, nor hardly the

outline of a human shape, in the dark gray of the midnight. But the

town was all asleep. There was no peril of discovery. The minister

might stand there, if it so pleased him, until morning should redden

in the east, without other risk than that the dank and chill night-air

would creep into his frame, and stiffen his joints with rheumatism,

and clog his throat with catarrh and cough; thereby defrauding the

expectant audience of to-morrow’s prayer and sermon. No eye could see

him, save that ever-wakeful one which had seen him in his closet,

wielding the bloody scourge. Why, then, had he come hither? Was it but

the mockery of penitence? A mockery, indeed, but in which his soul

trifled with itself! A mockery at which angels blushed and wept, while

fiends rejoiced, with jeering laughter! He had been driven hither by

the impulse of that Remorse which dogged him everywhere, and whose own

sister and closely linked companion was that Cowardice which

invariably drew him back, with her tremulous gripe, just when the

other impulse had hurried him to the verge of a disclosure. Poor,

miserable man! what right had infirmity like his to burden itself with

crime? Crime is for the iron-nerved, who have their choice either to

endure it, or, if it press too hard, to exert their fierce and savage

strength for a good purpose, and fling it off at once! This feeble and

most sensitive of spirits could do neither, yet continually did one

thing or another, which intertwined, in the same inextricable knot,

the agony of heaven-defying guilt and vain repentance.

And thus, while standing on the scaffold, in this vain show of

expiation, Mr. Dimmesdale was overcome with a great horror of mind, as

if the universe were gazing at a scarlet token on his naked breast,