danger to her body, yet her soul was safe!

Presently the horses began to scream, and tore at their tethers till I

came to them and quieted them. When they did feel my hands on them, they

whinnied low as in joy, and licked at my hands and were quiet for a

time. Many times through the night did I come to them, till it arrive to

the cold hour when all nature is at lowest; and every time my coming was

with quiet of them. In the cold hour the fire began to die, and I was

about stepping forth to replenish it, for now the snow came in flying

sweeps and with it a chill mist. Even in the dark there was a light of

some kind, as there ever is over snow; and it seemed as though the

snow-flurries and the wreaths of mist took shape as of women with

trailing garments. All was in dead, grim silence only that the horses

whinnied and cowered, as if in terror of the worst. I began to

fear--horrible fears; but then came to me the sense of safety in that

ring wherein I stood. I began, too, to think that my imaginings were of

the night, and the gloom, and the unrest that I have gone through, and

all the terrible anxiety. It was as though my memories of all Jonathan’s

horrid experience were befooling me; for the snow flakes and the mist

began to wheel and circle round, till I could get as though a shadowy

glimpse of those women that would have kissed him. And then the horses

cowered lower and lower, and moaned in terror as men do in pain. Even

the madness of fright was not to them, so that they could break away. I

feared for my dear Madam Mina when these weird figures drew near and

circled round. I looked at her, but she sat calm, and smiled at me; when

I would have stepped to the fire to replenish it, she caught me and held

me back, and whispered, like a voice that one hears in a dream, so low

it was:--

“No! No! Do not go without. Here you are safe!” I turned to her, and

looking in her eyes, said:--

“But you? It is for you that I fear!” whereat she laughed--a laugh, low

and unreal, and said:--

“Fear for _me_! Why fear for me? None safer in all the world from them

than I am,” and as I wondered at the meaning of her words, a puff of

wind made the flame leap up, and I see the red scar on her forehead.

Then, alas! I knew. Did I not, I would soon have learned, for the

wheeling figures of mist and snow came closer, but keeping ever without

the Holy circle. Then they began to materialise till--if God have not

take away my reason, for I saw it through my eyes--there were before me

in actual flesh the same three women that Jonathan saw in the room, when

they would have kissed his throat. I knew the swaying round forms, the

bright hard eyes, the white teeth, the ruddy colour, the voluptuous

lips. They smiled ever at poor dear Madam Mina; and as their laugh came

through the silence of the night, they twined their arms and pointed to

her, and said in those so sweet tingling tones that Jonathan said were

of the intolerable sweetness of the water-glasses:--

“Come, sister. Come to us. Come! Come!” In fear I turned to my poor

Madam Mina, and my heart with gladness leapt like flame; for oh! the

terror in her sweet eyes, the repulsion, the horror, told a story to my

heart that was all of hope. God be thanked she was not, yet, of them. I

seized some of the firewood which was by me, and holding out some of the

Wafer, advanced on them towards the fire. They drew back before me, and

laughed their low horrid laugh. I fed the fire, and feared them not; for

I knew that we were safe within our protections. They could not

approach, me, whilst so armed, nor Madam Mina whilst she remained within

the ring, which she could not leave no more than they could enter. The

horses had ceased to moan, and lay still on the ground; the snow fell on

them softly, and they grew whiter. I knew that there was for the poor

beasts no more of terror.

And so we remained till the red of the dawn to fall through the

snow-gloom. I was desolate and afraid, and full of woe and terror; but

when that beautiful sun began to climb the horizon life was to me again.

At the first coming of the dawn the horrid figures melted in the

whirling mist and snow; the wreaths of transparent gloom moved away

towards the castle, and were lost.