threw herself forward, and shouted in a voice laden with menace:--

“Monster, give me my child!”

She threw herself on her knees, and raising up her hands, cried the same

words in tones which wrung my heart. Then she tore her hair and beat her

breast, and abandoned herself to all the violences of extravagant

emotion. Finally, she threw herself forward, and, though I could not see

her, I could hear the beating of her naked hands against the door.

Somewhere high overhead, probably on the tower, I heard the voice of the

Count calling in his harsh, metallic whisper. His call seemed to be

answered from far and wide by the howling of wolves. Before many minutes

had passed a pack of them poured, like a pent-up dam when liberated,

through the wide entrance into the courtyard.

There was no cry from the woman, and the howling of the wolves was but

short. Before long they streamed away singly, licking their lips.

I could not pity her, for I knew now what had become of her child, and

she was better dead.

What shall I do? what can I do? How can I escape from this dreadful

thing of night and gloom and fear?

 * * * * *

_25 June, morning._--No man knows till he has suffered from the night

how sweet and how dear to his heart and eye the morning can be. When the

sun grew so high this morning that it struck the top of the great

gateway opposite my window, the high spot which it touched seemed to me

as if the dove from the ark had lighted there. My fear fell from me as

if it had been a vaporous garment which dissolved in the warmth. I must

take action of some sort whilst the courage of the day is upon me. Last

night one of my post-dated letters went to post, the first of that fatal

series which is to blot out the very traces of my existence from the

earth.

Let me not think of it. Action!

It has always been at night-time that I have been molested or

threatened, or in some way in danger or in fear. I have not yet seen the

Count in the daylight. Can it be that he sleeps when others wake, that

he may be awake whilst they sleep? If I could only get into his room!

But there is no possible way. The door is always locked, no way for me.

Yes, there is a way, if one dares to take it. Where his body has gone

why may not another body go? I have seen him myself crawl from his

window. Why should not I imitate him, and go in by his window? The

chances are desperate, but my need is more desperate still. I shall risk

it. At the worst it can only be death; and a man’s death is not a

calf’s, and the dreaded Hereafter may still be open to me. God help me

in my task! Good-bye, Mina, if I fail; good-bye, my faithful friend and

second father; good-bye, all, and last of all Mina!

 * * * * *

_Same day, later._--I have made the effort, and God, helping me, have

come safely back to this room. I must put down every detail in order. I

went whilst my courage was fresh straight to the window on the south

side, and at once got outside on the narrow ledge of stone which runs

around the building on this side. The stones are big and roughly cut,

and the mortar has by process of time been washed away between them. I

took off my boots, and ventured out on the desperate way. I looked down

once, so as to make sure that a sudden glimpse of the awful depth would

not overcome me, but after that kept my eyes away from it. I knew pretty

well the direction and distance of the Count’s window, and made for it

as well as I could, having regard to the opportunities available. I did

not feel dizzy--I suppose I was too excited--and the time seemed

ridiculously short till I found myself standing on the window-sill and

trying to raise up the sash. I was filled with agitation, however, when

I bent down and slid feet foremost in through the window. Then I looked

around for the Count, but, with surprise and gladness, made a discovery.

The room was empty! It was barely furnished with odd things, which

seemed to have never been used; the furniture was something the same

style as that in the south rooms, and was covered with dust. I looked

for the key, but it was not in the lock, and I could not find it