which he took from beneath his dress. It appeared to contain medical

preparations, one of which he mingled with a cup of water.

“My old studies in alchemy,” observed he, “and my sojourn, for above a

year past, among a people well versed in the kindly properties of

simples, have made a better physician of me than many that claim the

medical degree. Here, woman! The child is yours,—she is none of

mine,—neither will she recognize my voice or aspect as a father’s.

Administer this draught, therefore, with thine own hand.”

Hester repelled the offered medicine, at the same time gazing with

strongly marked apprehension into his face.

“Wouldst thou avenge thyself on the innocent babe?” whispered she.

“Foolish woman!” responded the physician, half coldly, half

soothingly. “What should ail me, to harm this misbegotten and

miserable babe? The medicine is potent for good; and were it my

child,—yea, mine own, as well as thine!—I could do no better for

it.”

As she still hesitated, being, in fact, in no reasonable state of

mind, he took the infant in his arms, and himself administered the

draught. It soon proved its efficacy, and redeemed the leech’s pledge.

The moans of the little patient subsided; its convulsive tossings

gradually ceased; and, in a few moments, as is the custom of young

children after relief from pain, it sank into a profound and dewy

slumber. The physician, as he had a fair right to be termed, next

bestowed his attention on the mother. With calm and intent scrutiny he

felt her pulse, looked into her eyes,—a gaze that made her heart

shrink and shudder, because so familiar, and yet so strange and

cold,—and, finally, satisfied with his investigation, proceeded to

mingle another draught.

“I know not Lethe nor Nepenthe,” remarked he; “but I have learned many

new secrets in the wilderness, and here is one of them,—a recipe that

an Indian taught me, in requital of some lessons of my own, that were

as old as Paracelsus. Drink it! It may be less soothing than a sinless

conscience. That I cannot give thee. But it will calm the swell and

heaving of thy passion, like oil thrown on the waves of a tempestuous

sea.”

He presented the cup to Hester, who received it with a slow, earnest

look into his face; not precisely a look of fear, yet full of doubt

and questioning, as to what his purposes might be. She looked also at

her slumbering child.

“I have thought of death,” said she,—“have wished for it,—would even

have prayed for it, were it fit that such as I should pray for

anything. Yet if death be in this cup, I bid thee think again, ere

thou beholdest me quaff it. See! It is even now at my lips.”

“Drink, then,” replied he, still with the same cold composure. “Dost

thou know me so little, Hester Prynne? Are my purposes wont to be so

shallow? Even if I imagine a scheme of vengeance, what could I do

better for my object than to let thee live,—than to give thee

medicines against all harm and peril of life,—so that this burning

shame may still blaze upon thy bosom?” As he spoke, he laid his long

forefinger on the scarlet letter, which forthwith seemed to scorch

into Hester’s breast, as if it had been red-hot. He noticed her

involuntary gesture, and smiled. “Live, therefore, and bear about thy

doom with thee, in the eyes of men and women,—in the eyes of him whom

thou didst call thy husband,—in the eyes of yonder child! And, that

thou mayest live, take off this draught.”

Without further expostulation or delay, Hester Prynne drained the

cup, and, at the motion of the man of skill, seated herself on the bed

where the child was sleeping; while he drew the only chair which the

room afforded, and took his own seat beside her. She could not but

tremble at these preparations; for she felt that—having now done all

that humanity or principle, or, if so it were, a refined cruelty,

impelled him to do, for the relief of physical suffering—he was next

to treat with her as the man whom she had most deeply and irreparably

injured.

“Hester,” said he, “I ask not wherefore, nor how, thou hast fallen

into the pit, or say, rather, thou hast ascended to the pedestal of

infamy, on which I found thee. The reason is not far to seek. It was

my folly, and thy weakness. I,—a man of thought,—the bookworm of

great libraries,—a man already in decay, having given my best years

to feed the hungry dream of knowledge,—what had I to do with youth

and beauty like thine own! Misshapen from my birth-hour, how could I

delude myself with the idea that intellectual gifts might veil