lady, confidentially, to Hester. “Yonder divine man! That saint on

earth, as the people uphold him to be, and as—I must needs say—he

really looks! Who, now, that saw him pass in the procession, would

think how little while it is since he went forth out of his

study,—chewing a Hebrew text of Scripture in his mouth, I

warrant,—to take an airing in the forest! Aha! we know what that

means, Hester Prynne! But, truly, forsooth, I find it hard to believe

him the same man. Many a church-member saw I, walking behind the

music, that has danced in the same measure with me, when Somebody was

fiddler, and, it might be, an Indian powwow or a Lapland wizard

changing hands with us! That is but a trifle, when a woman knows the

world. But this minister! Couldst thou surely tell, Hester, whether he

was the same man that encountered thee on the forest-path?”

“Madam, I know not of what you speak,” answered Hester Prynne, feeling

Mistress Hibbins to be of infirm mind; yet strangely startled and

awe-stricken by the confidence with which she affirmed a personal

connection between so many persons (herself among them) and the Evil

One. “It is not for me to talk lightly of a learned and pious minister

of the Word, like the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale!”

“Fie, woman, fie!” cried the old lady, shaking her finger at Hester.

“Dost thou think I have been to the forest so many times, and have yet

no skill to judge who else has been there? Yea; though no leaf of the

wild garlands, which they wore while they danced, be left in their

hair! I know thee, Hester; for I behold the token. We may all see it

in the sunshine; and it glows like a red flame in the dark. Thou

wearest it openly; so there need be no question about that. But this

minister! Let me tell thee, in thine ear! When the Black Man sees one

of his own servants, signed and sealed, so shy of owning to the bond

as is the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale, he hath a way of ordering matters

so that the mark shall be disclosed in open daylight to the eyes of

all the world! What is it that the minister seeks to hide, with his

hand always over his heart? Ha, Hester Prynne!”

“What is it, good Mistress Hibbins?” eagerly asked little Pearl. “Hast

thou seen it?”

“No matter, darling!” responded Mistress Hibbins, making Pearl a

profound reverence. “Thou thyself wilt see it, one time or another.

They say, child, thou art of the lineage of the Prince of the Air!

Wilt thou ride with me, some fine night, to see thy father? Then thou

shalt know wherefore the minister keeps his hand over his heart!”

Laughing so shrilly that all the market-place could hear her, the

weird old gentlewoman took her departure.

By this time the preliminary prayer had been offered in the

meeting-house, and the accents of the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale were

heard commencing his discourse. An irresistible feeling kept Hester

near the spot. As the sacred edifice was too much thronged to admit

another auditor, she took up her position close beside the scaffold of

the pillory. It was in sufficient proximity to bring the whole sermon

to her ears, in the shape of an indistinct, but varied, murmur and

flow of the minister’s very peculiar voice.

This vocal organ was in itself a rich endowment; insomuch that a

listener, comprehending nothing of the language in which the preacher

spoke, might still have been swayed to and fro by the mere tone and

cadence. Like all other music, it breathed passion and pathos, and

emotions high or tender, in a tongue native to the human heart,

wherever educated. Muffled as the sound was by its passage through the

church-walls, Hester Prynne listened with such intentness, and

sympathized so intimately, that the sermon had throughout a meaning

for her, entirely apart from its indistinguishable words. These,

perhaps, if more distinctly heard, might have been only a grosser

medium, and have clogged the spiritual sense. Now she caught the low

undertone, as of the wind sinking down to repose itself; then ascended

with it, as it rose through progressive gradations of sweetness and

power, until its volume seemed to envelop her with an atmosphere of

awe and solemn grandeur. And yet, majestic as the voice sometimes

became, there was forever in it an essential character of

plaintiveness. A loud or low expression of anguish,—the whisper, or

the shriek, as it might be conceived, of suffering humanity, that