“Oh, child, you never think. You never think of anything but your
own selfishness. You could think to come all the way over here from
Jackson’s Island in the night to laugh at our troubles, and you could
think to fool me with a lie about a dream; but you couldn’t ever think
to pity us and save us from sorrow.”

“Auntie, I know now it was mean, but I didn’t mean to be mean. I didn’t,
honest. And besides, I didn’t come over here to laugh at you that
night.”

“What did you come for, then?”

“It was to tell you not to be uneasy about us, because we hadn’t got
drownded.”

“Tom, Tom, I would be the thankfullest soul in this world if I could
believe you ever had as good a thought as that, but you know you never
did—and I know it, Tom.”

“Indeed and ’deed I did, auntie—I wish I may never stir if I didn’t.”

“Oh, Tom, don’t lie—don’t do it. It only makes things a hundred times
worse.”

“It ain’t a lie, auntie; it’s the truth. I wanted to keep you from
grieving—that was all that made me come.”

“I’d give the whole world to believe that—it would cover up a power
of sins, Tom. I’d ’most be glad you’d run off and acted so bad. But it
ain’t reasonable; because, why didn’t you tell me, child?”

“Why, you see, when you got to talking about the funeral, I just got all
full of the idea of our coming and hiding in the church, and I couldn’t
somehow bear to spoil it. So I just put the bark back in my pocket and
kept mum.”

“What bark?”

“The bark I had wrote on to tell you we’d gone pirating. I wish, now,
you’d waked up when I kissed you—I do, honest.”

The hard lines in his aunt’s face relaxed and a sudden tenderness dawned
in her eyes.

“_Did_ you kiss me, Tom?”

“Why, yes, I did.”

“Are you sure you did, Tom?”

“Why, yes, I did, auntie—certain sure.”

“What did you kiss me for, Tom?”

“Because I loved you so, and you laid there moaning and I was so sorry.”

The words sounded like truth. The old lady could not hide a tremor in
her voice when she said:

“Kiss me again, Tom!—and be off with you to school, now, and don’t
bother me any more.”

The moment he was gone, she ran to a closet and got out the ruin of a
jacket which Tom had gone pirating in. Then she stopped, with it in her
hand, and said to herself:

“No, I don’t dare. Poor boy, I reckon he’s lied about it—but it’s a
blessed, blessed lie, there’s such a comfort come from it. I hope
the Lord—I _know_ the Lord will forgive him, because it was such
good-heartedness in him to tell it. But I don’t want to find out it’s a
lie. I won’t look.”

She put the jacket away, and stood by musing a minute. Twice she put out
her hand to take the garment again, and twice she refrained. Once more
she ventured, and this time she fortified herself with the thought:
“It’s a good lie—it’s a good lie—I won’t let it grieve me.” So she
sought the jacket pocket. A moment later she was reading Tom’s piece of
bark through flowing tears and saying: “I could forgive the boy, now, if
he’d committed a million sins!”

CHAPTER XX

There was something about Aunt Polly’s manner, when she kissed Tom, that
swept away his low spirits and made him lighthearted and happy again. He
started to school and had the luck of coming upon Becky Thatcher at the
head of Meadow Lane. His mood always determined his manner. Without a
moment’s hesitation he ran to her and said:

“I acted mighty mean today, Becky, and I’m so sorry. I won’t ever, ever
do that way again, as long as ever I live—please make up, won’t you?”

The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face:

“I’ll thank you to keep yourself _to_ yourself, Mr. Thomas Sawyer. I’ll
never speak to you again.”

She tossed her head and passed on. Tom was so stunned that he had not
even presence of mind enough to say “Who cares, Miss Smarty?” until the
right time to say it had gone by. So he said nothing. But he was in a
fine rage, nevertheless. He moped into the schoolyard wishing she were
a boy, and imagining how he would trounce her if she were. He presently
encountered her and delivered a stinging remark as he passed. She hurled
one in return, and the angry breach was complete. It seemed to Becky, in
her hot resentment, that she could hardly wait for school to “take in,”
 she was so impatient to see Tom flogged for the injured spelling-book.
If she had had any lingering notion of exposing Alfred Temple, Tom’s
offensive fling had driven it entirely away.

Poor girl, she did not know how fast she was nearing trouble herself.
The master, Mr. Dobbins, had reached middle age with an unsatisfied
ambition. The darling of his desires was, to be a doctor, but
poverty had decreed that he should be nothing higher than a village
schoolmaster. Every day he took a mysterious book out of his desk and
absorbed himself in it at times when no classes were reciting. He kept
that book under lock and key. There was not an urchin in school but was
perishing to have a glimpse of it, but the chance never came. Every boy
and girl had a theory about the nature of that book; but no two theories
were alike, and there was no way of getting at the facts in the case.
Now, as Becky was passing by the desk, which stood near the door, she
noticed that the key was in the lock! It was a precious moment. She
glanced around; found herself alone, and the next instant she had the
book in her hands. The titlepage—Professor Somebody’s _Anatomy_—carried
no information to her mind; so she began to turn the leaves. She came at
once upon a handsomely engraved and colored frontispiece—a human figure,
stark naked. At that moment a shadow fell on the page and Tom Sawyer
stepped in at the door and caught a glimpse of the picture. Becky
snatched at the book to close it, and had the hard luck to tear the
pictured page half down the middle. She thrust the volume into the desk,
turned the key, and burst out crying with shame and vexation.

“Tom Sawyer, you are just as mean as you can be, to sneak up on a person
and look at what they’re looking at.”

“How could I know you was looking at anything?”

“You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Tom Sawyer; you know you’re
going to tell on me, and oh, what shall I do, what shall I do! I’ll be
whipped, and I never was whipped in school.”

Then she stamped her little foot and said:

“_Be_ so mean if you want to! I know something that’s going to happen.
You just wait and you’ll see! Hateful, hateful, hateful!”—and she flung
out of the house with a new explosion of crying.

Tom stood still, rather flustered by this onslaught. Presently he said
to himself: