employer, what you will, engaged that someone should come on his behalf,

it was understood that my needs only were to be consulted. I have not

stinted. Is it not so?”

What could I do but bow acceptance? It was Mr. Hawkins’s interest, not

mine, and I had to think of him, not myself; and besides, while Count

Dracula was speaking, there was that in his eyes and in his bearing

which made me remember that I was a prisoner, and that if I wished it I

could have no choice. The Count saw his victory in my bow, and his

mastery in the trouble of my face, for he began at once to use them, but

in his own smooth, resistless way:--

“I pray you, my good young friend, that you will not discourse of things

other than business in your letters. It will doubtless please your

friends to know that you are well, and that you look forward to getting

home to them. Is it not so?” As he spoke he handed me three sheets of

note-paper and three envelopes. They were all of the thinnest foreign

post, and looking at them, then at him, and noticing his quiet smile,

with the sharp, canine teeth lying over the red underlip, I understood

as well as if he had spoken that I should be careful what I wrote, for

he would be able to read it. So I determined to write only formal notes

now, but to write fully to Mr. Hawkins in secret, and also to Mina, for

to her I could write in shorthand, which would puzzle the Count, if he

did see it. When I had written my two letters I sat quiet, reading a

book whilst the Count wrote several notes, referring as he wrote them to

some books on his table. Then he took up my two and placed them with his

own, and put by his writing materials, after which, the instant the door

had closed behind him, I leaned over and looked at the letters, which

were face down on the table. I felt no compunction in doing so, for

under the circumstances I felt that I should protect myself in every way

I could.

One of the letters was directed to Samuel F. Billington, No. 7, The

Crescent, Whitby, another to Herr Leutner, Varna; the third was to

Coutts & Co., London, and the fourth to Herren Klopstock & Billreuth,

bankers, Buda-Pesth. The second and fourth were unsealed. I was just

about to look at them when I saw the door-handle move. I sank back in my

seat, having just had time to replace the letters as they had been and

to resume my book before the Count, holding still another letter in his

hand, entered the room. He took up the letters on the table and stamped

them carefully, and then turning to me, said:--

“I trust you will forgive me, but I have much work to do in private this

evening. You will, I hope, find all things as you wish.” At the door he

turned, and after a moment’s pause said:--

“Let me advise you, my dear young friend--nay, let me warn you with all

seriousness, that should you leave these rooms you will not by any

chance go to sleep in any other part of the castle. It is old, and has

many memories, and there are bad dreams for those who sleep unwisely. Be

warned! Should sleep now or ever overcome you, or be like to do, then

haste to your own chamber or to these rooms, for your rest will then be

safe. But if you be not careful in this respect, then”--He finished his

speech in a gruesome way, for he motioned with his hands as if he were

washing them. I quite understood; my only doubt was as to whether any

dream could be more terrible than the unnatural, horrible net of gloom

and mystery which seemed closing around me.

 * * * * *

_Later._--I endorse the last words written, but this time there is no

doubt in question. I shall not fear to sleep in any place where he is

not. I have placed the crucifix over the head of my bed--I imagine that

my rest is thus freer from dreams; and there it shall remain.

When he left me I went to my room. After a little while, not hearing any

sound, I came out and went up the stone stair to where I could look out

towards the South. There was some sense of freedom in the vast expanse,

inaccessible though it was to me, as compared with the narrow darkness

of the courtyard. Looking out on this, I felt that I was indeed in

prison, and I seemed to want a breath of fresh air, though it were of

the night. I am beginning to feel this nocturnal existence tell on me.

It is destroying my nerve. I start at my own shadow, and am full of all

sorts of horrible imaginings. God knows that there is ground for my

terrible fear in this accursed place! I looked out over the beautiful

expanse, bathed in soft yellow moonlight till it was almost as light as