over the people for an instant,—at once a shadow and a

splendor,—and had shed down a shower of golden truths upon them.

Thus, there had come to the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale—as to most men,

in their various spheres, though seldom recognized until they see it

far behind them—an epoch of life more brilliant and full of triumph

than any previous one, or than any which could hereafter be. He stood,

at this moment, on the very proudest eminence of superiority, to which

the gifts of intellect, rich lore, prevailing eloquence, and a

reputation of whitest sanctity, could exalt a clergyman in New

England’s earliest days, when the professional character was of itself

a lofty pedestal. Such was the position which the minister occupied,

as he bowed his head forward on the cushions of the pulpit, at the

close of his Election Sermon. Meanwhile Hester Prynne was standing

beside the scaffold of the pillory, with the scarlet letter still

burning on her breast!

Now was heard again the clangor of the music, and the measured tramp

of the military escort, issuing from the church-door. The procession

was to be marshalled thence to the town-hall, where a solemn banquet

would complete the ceremonies of the day.

Once more, therefore, the train of venerable and majestic fathers was

seen moving through a broad pathway of the people, who drew back

reverently, on either side, as the Governor and magistrates, the old

and wise men, the holy ministers, and all that were eminent and

renowned, advanced into the midst of them. When they were fairly in

the market-place, their presence was greeted by a shout. This—though

doubtless it might acquire additional force and volume from the

childlike loyalty which the age awarded to its rulers—was felt to be

an irrepressible outburst of enthusiasm kindled in the auditors by

that high strain of eloquence which was yet reverberating in their

ears. Each felt the impulse in himself, and, in the same breath,

caught it from his neighbor. Within the church, it had hardly been

kept down; beneath the sky, it pealed upward to the zenith. There were

human beings enough, and enough of highly wrought and symphonious

feeling, to produce that more impressive sound than the organ tones of

the blast, or the thunder, or the roar of the sea; even that mighty

swell of many voices, blended into one great voice by the universal

impulse which makes likewise one vast heart out of the many. Never,

from the soil of New England, had gone up such a shout! Never, on New

England soil, had stood the man so honored by his mortal brethren as

the preacher!

How fared it with him then? Were there not the brilliant particles of

a halo in the air about his head? So etherealized by spirit as he was,

and so apotheosized by worshipping admirers, did his footsteps, in the

procession, really tread upon the dust of earth?

As the ranks of military men and civil fathers moved onward, all eyes

were turned towards the point where the minister was seen to approach

among them. The shout died into a murmur, as one portion of the crowd

after another obtained a glimpse of him. How feeble and pale he

looked, amid all his triumph! The energy—or say, rather, the

inspiration which had held him up, until he should have delivered the

sacred message that brought its own strength along with it from

heaven—was withdrawn, now that it had so faithfully performed its

office. The glow, which they had just before beheld burning on his

cheek, was extinguished, like a flame that sinks down hopelessly

among the late-decaying embers. It seemed hardly the face of a man

alive, with such a death-like hue; it was hardly a man with life in

him, that tottered on his path so nervelessly, yet tottered, and did

not fall!

One of his clerical brethren,—it was the venerable John

Wilson,—observing the state in which Mr. Dimmesdale was left by the

retiring wave of intellect and sensibility, stepped forward hastily to

offer his support. The minister tremulously, but decidedly, repelled

the old man’s arm. He still walked onward, if that movement could be

so described, which rather resembled the wavering effort of an infant,

with its mother’s arms in view, outstretched to tempt him forward. And

now, almost imperceptible as were the latter steps of his progress, he

had come opposite the well-remembered and weather-darkened scaffold,

where, long since, with all that dreary lapse of time between, Hester

Prynne had encountered the world’s ignominious stare. There stood

Hester, holding little Pearl by the hand! And there was the scarlet

letter on her breast! The minister here made a pause; although the

music still played the stately and rejoicing march to which the

procession moved. It summoned him onward,—onward to the

festival!—but here he made a pause.