"And now for my great idea!" he told himself.

But it was some time before he could give his attention to that.

CHAPTER III

THE BIG OFFER

Working with all the skill he possessed, Tom had got the aeroplane in

proper working order again. As has been said, the accident was a

trivial one, and had he been alone, or with an experienced aviator, he

would have thought little of it. Then, very likely, he would have

volplaned to earth and made the repairs there. But he did not want to

frighten Mary Nestor, so he fixed the control while gliding along, and

made light of it. Thus his passenger was reassured.

"Are we all right?" asked Mary through the tube, as they sailed along.

"Right as a fiddle," answered Tom, shouting through the same means of

communication.

"What's that about a riddle?" asked Mary, in surprise at his seeming

flippancy at such a time.

"I didn't say anything about a riddle--I said we are as fit as a

fiddle!" cried Tom. "Never mind. No use trying to talk with the racket

this motor makes, and it isn't the noisiest of its kind, either. I'll

tell you when we get down. Do you like it?"

"Yes, I like it better than I did at first," answered Mary, for she had

managed to understand the last of Tom's questions. Then he sailed a

little higher, circled about, and, a little later, not to get Mary too

tired and anxious, he headed for his landing field.

"I'll take you home in the auto," he cried to his passenger. "We could

go up to your house this way--in style--if there was a field near by

large enough to land in. But there isn't. So it will have to be a

plain, every-day auto."

"That's good enough for me," said Mary. "Though this trip is

wonderful--glorious! I'll go again any time you ask me."

"Well, I'll ask you," said Tom. "And when I do maybe it won't be so

hard to hold a conversation. It will be more like this," and he shut

off the motor and began to glide gently down. The quiet succeeding the

terrific noise of the motor exhaust was almost startling, and Tom and

Mary could converse easily without using the tube.

Then followed the landing on the soft, springy turf, a little glide

over the ground, and the machine came to a halt, while mechanics ran

out of the hangar to take charge of it.

"I'll just go in and change these togs," said Mary, as she alighted and

looked at her leather costume.

"No, don't," advised Tom. "You look swell in em. Keep 'em on. They're

yours, and you'll need 'em when we go up again. Here comes the auto.

I'll take you right home in it. Keep the aviation suit on.

"I wonder what Mr. Damon could have wanted," remarked Tom, as he drove

Mary along the country road.

"He seemed very much excited," she replied.

"Oh, he almost always is that way--blessing everything he can think of.

You know that. But this time it was different, I'll admit. I hope

nothing is the matter. I might have stopped and spoken to him, but I

was afraid if I did you'd back out and wouldn't come for a sky ride."

"Well, I might have. But now that I've had one, even with an accident

thrown in, I'll go any time you ask me, Tom," and Mary smiled at the

young inventor.

"Shucks, that wasn't a real accident!" he laughed. "But I do wonder

what Mr. Damon wanted."

"Better go back and find out, Tom," advised Mary, as they stopped in

front of her house.

"Oh, I want to come in and talk to you. Haven't had a chance for a good

talk today, that motor made such a racket."

"No, go along now, but come back and see me this afternoon if you like."

"I do like, all right! And I suppose Mr. Damon will be fussing until he

sees me. Well, glad you liked your first ride in the air, Mary--that

is, the first one of any account," for Mary had been in an aeroplane

before, though only up a little way--a sort of "grass-cutting stunt,"