throughout all the misery which had kept him grovelling on the earth.

Of a deeply religious temperament, there was inevitably a tinge of the

devotional in his mood.

“Do I feel joy again?” cried he, wondering at himself. “Methought the

germ of it was dead in me! O Hester, thou art my better angel! I seem

to have flung myself—sick, sin-stained, and sorrow-blackened—down

upon these forest-leaves, and to have risen up all made anew, and with

new powers to glorify Him that hath been merciful! This is already the

better life! Why did we not find it sooner?”

“Let us not look back,” answered Hester Prynne. “The past is gone!

Wherefore should we linger upon it now? See! With this symbol, I undo

it all, and make it as it had never been!”

So speaking, she undid the clasp that fastened the scarlet letter,

and, taking it from her bosom, threw it to a distance among the

withered leaves. The mystic token alighted on the hither verge of the

stream. With a hand’s breadth farther flight it would have fallen into

the water, and have given the little brook another woe to carry

onward, besides the unintelligible tale which it still kept murmuring

about. But there lay the embroidered letter, glittering like a lost

jewel, which some ill-fated wanderer might pick up, and thenceforth be

haunted by strange phantoms of guilt, sinkings of the heart, and

unaccountable misfortune.

[Illustration: A Gleam of Sunshine]

The stigma gone, Hester heaved a long, deep sigh, in which the burden

of shame and anguish departed from her spirit. O exquisite relief! She

had not known the weight, until she felt the freedom! By another

impulse, she took off the formal cap that confined her hair; and down

it fell upon her shoulders, dark and rich, with at once a shadow and a

light in its abundance, and imparting the charm of softness to her

features. There played around her mouth, and beamed out of her eyes, a

radiant and tender smile, that seemed gushing from the very heart of

womanhood. A crimson flush was glowing on her cheek, that had been

long so pale. Her sex, her youth, and the whole richness of her

beauty, came back from what men call the irrevocable past, and

clustered themselves, with her maiden hope, and a happiness before

unknown, within the magic circle of this hour. And, as if the gloom of

the earth and sky had been but the effluence of these two mortal

hearts, it vanished with their sorrow. All at once, as with a sudden

smile of heaven, forth burst the sunshine, pouring a very flood into

the obscure forest, gladdening each green leaf, transmuting the yellow

fallen ones to gold, and gleaming adown the gray trunks of the solemn

trees. The objects that had made a shadow hitherto, embodied the

brightness now. The course of the little brook might be traced by its

merry gleam afar into the wood’s heart of mystery, which had become a

mystery of joy.

Such was the sympathy of Nature—that wild, heathen Nature of the

forest, never subjugated by human law, nor illumined by higher

truth—with the bliss of these two spirits! Love, whether newly born,

or aroused from a death-like slumber, must always create a sunshine,

filling the heart so full of radiance, that it overflows upon the

outward world. Had the forest still kept its gloom, it would have been

bright in Hester’s eyes, and bright in Arthur Dimmesdale’s!

Hester looked at him with the thrill of another joy.

“Thou must know Pearl!” said she. “Our little Pearl! Thou hast seen

her,—yes, I know it!—but thou wilt see her now with other eyes. She

is a strange child! I hardly comprehend her! But thou wilt love her

dearly, as I do, and wilt advise me how to deal with her.”

“Dost thou think the child will be glad to know me?” asked the

minister, somewhat uneasily. “I have long shrunk from children,

because they often show a distrust,—a backwardness to be familiar

with me. I have even been afraid of little Pearl!”

“Ah, that was sad!” answered the mother. “But she will love thee

dearly, and thou her. She is not far off. I will call her! Pearl!

Pearl!”