but I believe it is right. In the moment when Madam Mina said those

words that arrest both our understanding, an inspiration came to me. In

the trance of three days ago the Count sent her his spirit to read her

mind; or more like he took her to see him in his earth-box in the ship

with water rushing, just as it go free at rise and set of sun. He learn

then that we are here; for she have more to tell in her open life with

eyes to see and ears to hear than he, shut, as he is, in his coffin-box.

Now he make his most effort to escape us. At present he want her not.

“He is sure with his so great knowledge that she will come at his call;

but he cut her off--take her, as he can do, out of his own power, that

so she come not to him. Ah! there I have hope that our man-brains that

have been of man so long and that have not lost the grace of God, will

come higher than his child-brain that lie in his tomb for centuries,

that grow not yet to our stature, and that do only work selfish and

therefore small. Here comes Madam Mina; not a word to her of her trance!

She know it not; and it would overwhelm her and make despair just when

we want all her hope, all her courage; when most we want all her great

brain which is trained like man’s brain, but is of sweet woman and have

a special power which the Count give her, and which he may not take away

altogether--though he think not so. Hush! let me speak, and you shall

learn. Oh, John, my friend, we are in awful straits. I fear, as I never

feared before. We can only trust the good God. Silence! here she comes!”

I thought that the Professor was going to break down and have hysterics,

just as he had when Lucy died, but with a great effort he controlled

himself and was at perfect nervous poise when Mrs. Harker tripped into

the room, bright and happy-looking and, in the doing of work, seemingly

forgetful of her misery. As she came in, she handed a number of sheets

of typewriting to Van Helsing. He looked over them gravely, his face

brightening up as he read. Then holding the pages between his finger and

thumb he said:--

“Friend John, to you with so much of experience already--and you, too,

dear Madam Mina, that are young--here is a lesson: do not fear ever to

think. A half-thought has been buzzing often in my brain, but I fear to

let him loose his wings. Here now, with more knowledge, I go back to

where that half-thought come from and I find that he be no half-thought

at all; that be a whole thought, though so young that he is not yet

strong to use his little wings. Nay, like the “Ugly Duck” of my friend

Hans Andersen, he be no duck-thought at all, but a big swan-thought that

sail nobly on big wings, when the time come for him to try them. See I

read here what Jonathan have written:--

“That other of his race who, in a later age, again and again, brought

his forces over The Great River into Turkey Land; who, when he was

beaten back, came again, and again, and again, though he had to come

alone from the bloody field where his troops were being slaughtered,

since he knew that he alone could ultimately triumph.”

“What does this tell us? Not much? no! The Count’s child-thought see

nothing; therefore he speak so free. Your man-thought see nothing; my

man-thought see nothing, till just now. No! But there comes another word

from some one who speak without thought because she, too, know not what

it mean--what it _might_ mean. Just as there are elements which rest,

yet when in nature’s course they move on their way and they touch--then

pouf! and there comes a flash of light, heaven wide, that blind and kill

and destroy some; but that show up all earth below for leagues and

leagues. Is it not so? Well, I shall explain. To begin, have you ever

study the philosophy of crime? ‘Yes’ and ‘No.’ You, John, yes; for it is

a study of insanity. You, no, Madam Mina; for crime touch you not--not

but once. Still, your mind works true, and argues not _a particulari ad

universale_. There is this peculiarity in criminals. It is so constant,

in all countries and at all times, that even police, who know not much

from philosophy, come to know it empirically, that _it is_. That is to