authorized and authenticated by the document of Mr. Surveyor Pue. The

original papers, together with the scarlet letter itself,—a most

curious relic,—are still in my possession, and shall be freely

exhibited to whomsoever, induced by the great interest of the

narrative, may desire a sight of them. I must not be understood as

affirming, that, in the dressing up of the tale, and imagining the

motives and modes of passion that influenced the characters who figure

in it, I have invariably confined myself within the limits of the old

Surveyor’s half a dozen sheets of foolscap. On the contrary, I have

allowed myself, as to such points, nearly or altogether as much

license as if the facts had been entirely of my own invention. What I

contend for is the authenticity of the outline.

This incident recalled my mind, in some degree, to its old track.

There seemed to be here the groundwork of a tale. It impressed me as

if the ancient Surveyor, in his garb of a hundred years gone by, and

wearing his immortal wig,—which was buried with him, but did not

perish in the grave,—had met me in the deserted chamber of the

Custom-House. In his port was the dignity of one who had borne his

Majesty’s commission, and who was therefore illuminated by a ray of

the splendor that shone so dazzlingly about the throne. How unlike,

alas! the hang-dog look of a republican official, who, as the servant

of the people, feels himself less than the least, and below the

lowest, of his masters. With his own ghostly hand, the obscurely seen

but majestic figure had imparted to me the scarlet symbol, and the

little roll of explanatory manuscript. With his own ghostly voice, he

had exhorted me, on the sacred consideration of my filial duty and

reverence towards him,—who might reasonably regard himself as my

official ancestor,—to bring his mouldy and moth-eaten lucubrations

before the public. “Do this,” said the ghost of Mr. Surveyor Pue,

emphatically nodding the head that looked so imposing within its

memorable wig,—“do this, and the profit shall be all your own! You

will shortly need it; for it is not in your days as it was in mine,

when a man’s office was a life-lease, and oftentimes an heirloom.

But, I charge you, in this matter of old Mistress Prynne, give to your

predecessor’s memory the credit which will be rightfully due!” And I

said to the ghost of Mr. Surveyor Pue, “I will!”

On Hester Prynne’s story, therefore, I bestowed much thought. It was

the subject of my meditations for many an hour, while pacing to and

fro across my room, or traversing, with a hundred-fold repetition, the

long extent from the front-door of the Custom-House to the

side-entrance, and back again. Great were the weariness and annoyance

of the old Inspector and the Weighers and Gaugers, whose slumbers were

disturbed by the unmercifully lengthened tramp of my passing and

returning footsteps. Remembering their own former habits, they used to

say that the Surveyor was walking the quarter-deck. They probably

fancied that my sole object—and, indeed, the sole object for which a

sane man could ever put himself into voluntary motion—was, to get an

appetite for dinner. And to say the truth, an appetite, sharpened by

the east wind that generally blew along the passage, was the only

valuable result of so much indefatigable exercise. So little adapted

is the atmosphere of a custom-house to the delicate harvest of fancy

and sensibility, that, had I remained there through ten Presidencies

yet to come, I doubt whether the tale of “The Scarlet Letter” would

ever have been brought before the public eye. My imagination was a

tarnished mirror. It would not reflect, or only with miserable

dimness, the figures with which I did my best to people it. The

characters of the narrative would not be warmed and rendered malleable

by any heat that I could kindle at my intellectual forge. They would

take neither the glow of passion nor the tenderness of sentiment, but

retained all the rigidity of dead corpses, and stared me in the face

with a fixed and ghastly grin of contemptuous defiance. “What have you

to do with us?” that expression seemed to say. “The little power you

might once have possessed over the tribe of unrealities is gone! You

have bartered it for a pittance of the public gold. Go, then, and earn

your wages!” In short, the almost torpid creatures of my own fancy

twitted me with imbecility, and not without fair occasion.

It was not merely during the three hours and a half which Uncle Sam

claimed as his share of my daily life, that this wretched numbness

held possession of me. It went with me on my sea-shore walks, and

rambles into the country, whenever—which was seldom and

reluctantly—I bestirred myself to seek that invigorating charm of

Nature, which used to give me such freshness and activity of thought