For some minutes I lay there in the rain and darkness watching, by the

intermittent light, these monstrous beings of metal moving about in the

distance over the hedge tops. A thin hail was now beginning, and as it

came and went their figures grew misty and then flashed into clearness

again. Now and then came a gap in the lightning, and the night

swallowed them up.

I was soaked with hail above and puddle water below. It was some time

before my blank astonishment would let me struggle up the bank to a

drier position, or think at all of my imminent peril.

Not far from me was a little one-roomed squatter’s hut of wood,

surrounded by a patch of potato garden. I struggled to my feet at last,

and, crouching and making use of every chance of cover, I made a run

for this. I hammered at the door, but I could not make the people hear

(if there were any people inside), and after a time I desisted, and,

availing myself of a ditch for the greater part of the way, succeeded

in crawling, unobserved by these monstrous machines, into the pine

woods towards Maybury.

Under cover of this I pushed on, wet and shivering now, towards my own

house. I walked among the trees trying to find the footpath. It was

very dark indeed in the wood, for the lightning was now becoming

infrequent, and the hail, which was pouring down in a torrent, fell in

columns through the gaps in the heavy foliage.

If I had fully realised the meaning of all the things I had seen I

should have immediately worked my way round through Byfleet to Street

Cobham, and so gone back to rejoin my wife at Leatherhead. But that

night the strangeness of things about me, and my physical wretchedness,

prevented me, for I was bruised, weary, wet to the skin, deafened and

blinded by the storm.

I had a vague idea of going on to my own house, and that was as much

motive as I had. I staggered through the trees, fell into a ditch and

bruised my knees against a plank, and finally splashed out into the

lane that ran down from the College Arms. I say splashed, for the storm

water was sweeping the sand down the hill in a muddy torrent. There in

the darkness a man blundered into me and sent me reeling back.

He gave a cry of terror, sprang sideways, and rushed on before I could

gather my wits sufficiently to speak to him. So heavy was the stress of

the storm just at this place that I had the hardest task to win my way

up the hill. I went close up to the fence on the left and worked my way

along its palings.

Near the top I stumbled upon something soft, and, by a flash of

lightning, saw between my feet a heap of black broadcloth and a pair of

boots. Before I could distinguish clearly how the man lay, the flicker

of light had passed. I stood over him waiting for the next flash. When

it came, I saw that he was a sturdy man, cheaply but not shabbily

dressed; his head was bent under his body, and he lay crumpled up close

to the fence, as though he had been flung violently against it.

Overcoming the repugnance natural to one who had never before touched a

dead body, I stooped and turned him over to feel for his heart. He was

quite dead. Apparently his neck had been broken. The lightning flashed

for a third time, and his face leaped upon me. I sprang to my feet. It

was the landlord of the Spotted Dog, whose conveyance I had taken.

I stepped over him gingerly and pushed on up the hill. I made my way by

the police station and the College Arms towards my own house. Nothing

was burning on the hillside, though from the common there still came a

red glare and a rolling tumult of ruddy smoke beating up against the

drenching hail. So far as I could see by the flashes, the houses about

me were mostly uninjured. By the College Arms a dark heap lay in the

road.

Down the road towards Maybury Bridge there were voices and the sound of

feet, but I had not the courage to shout or to go to them. I let myself

in with my latchkey, closed, locked and bolted the door, staggered to

the foot of the staircase, and sat down. My imagination was full of

those striding metallic monsters, and of the dead body smashed against

the fence.

I crouched at the foot of the staircase with my back to the wall,

shivering violently.

XI.

AT THE WINDOW.

I have already said that my storms of emotion have a trick of

exhausting themselves. After a time I discovered that I was cold and