Or by the breake of day disguis'd from hence,

Soiourne in Mantua, Ile find out your man,

And he shall signifie from time to time,

Euery good hap to you, that chaunces heere:

Giue me thy hand, 'tis late, farewell, goodnight

 Rom. But that a ioy past ioy, calls out on me,

It were a griefe, so briefe to part with thee:

Farewell.

Exeunt.

Enter old Capulet, his Wife and Paris.

 Cap. Things haue falne out sir so vnluckily,

That we haue had no time to moue our Daughter:

Looke you, she Lou'd her kinsman Tybalt dearely,

And so did I. Well, we were borne to die.

'Tis very late, she'l not come downe to night:

I promise you, but for your company,

I would haue bin a bed an houre ago

 Par. These times of wo, affoord no times to wooe:

Madam goodnight, commend me to your Daughter

 Lady. I will, and know her mind early to morrow,

To night, she is mewed vp to her heauinesse

 Cap. Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender

Of my Childes loue: I thinke she will be rul'd

In all respects by me: nay more, I doubt it not.

Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed,

Acquaint her here, of my Sonne Paris Loue,

And bid her, marke you me, on Wendsday next,

But soft, what day is this?

 Par. Monday my Lord

 Cap. Monday, ha ha: well Wendsday is too soone,

A Thursday let it be: a Thursday tell her,

She shall be married to this Noble Earle:

Will you be ready? do you like this hast?

Weele keepe no great adoe, a Friend or two,

For harke you, Tybalt being slaine so late,

It may be thought we held him carelesly,

Being our kinsman, if we reuell much:

Therefore weele haue some halfe a dozen Friends,

And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?

 Paris. My Lord,

I would that Thursday were to morrow

 Cap. Well, get you gone, a Thursday, be it then:

Go you to Iuliet ere you go to bed,

Prepare her wife, against this wedding day.

Farewell my Lord, light to my Chamber hoa,

Afore me, it is so late, that we may call it early by and by,

Goodnight.

Exeunt.

Enter Romeo and Iuliet aloft.

 Iul. Wilt thou be gone? It is not yet neere day:

It was the Nightingale, and not the Larke,

That pier'st the fearefull hollow of thine eare,

Nightly she sings on yond Pomgranet tree,

Beleeue me Loue, it was the Nightingale

 Rom. It was the Larke the Herauld of the Morne:

No Nightingale: looke Loue what enuious streakes

Do lace the seuering Cloudes in yonder East:

Nights Candles are burnt out, and Iocond day

Stands tipto on the mistie Mountaines tops,

I must be gone and liue, or stay and die

 Iul. Yond light is not daylight, I know it I:

It is some Meteor that the Sun exhales,

To be to thee this night a Torch-bearer,

And light thee on thy way to Mantua.

Therefore stay yet, thou need'st not be gone,

 Rom. Let me be tane, let me be put to death,

I am content, so thou wilt haue it so.

Ile say yon gray is not the mornings eye,

'Tis but the pale reflexe of Cinthias brow.

Nor that is not Larke whose noates do beate

The vaulty heauen so high aboue our heads,

I haue more care to stay, then will to go:

Come death and welcome, Iuliet wills it so.

How ist my soule, lets talke, it is not day

 Iuli. It is, it is, hie hence be gone away:

It is the Larke that sings so out of tune,

Straining harsh Discords, and vnpleasing Sharpes.

Some say the Larke makes sweete Diuision;

This doth not so: for she diuideth vs.

Some say, the Larke and loathed Toad change eyes,

O now I would they had chang'd voyces too: