is....

 Strange that it never struck me that the very next house might be

 the Count’s hiding-place! Goodness knows that we had enough clues

 from the conduct of the patient Renfield! The bundle of letters

 relating to the purchase of the house were with the typescript. Oh,

 if we had only had them earlier we might have saved poor Lucy!

 Stop; that way madness lies! Harker has gone back, and is again

 collating his material. He says that by dinner-time they will be

 able to show a whole connected narrative. He thinks that in the

 meantime I should see Renfield, as hitherto he has been a sort of

 index to the coming and going of the Count. I hardly see this yet,

 but when I get at the dates I suppose I shall. What a good thing

 that Mrs. Harker put my cylinders into type! We never could have

 found the dates otherwise....

 I found Renfield sitting placidly in his room with his hands

 folded, smiling benignly. At the moment he seemed as sane as any

 one I ever saw. I sat down and talked with him on a lot of

 subjects, all of which he treated naturally. He then, of his own

 accord, spoke of going home, a subject he has never mentioned to my

 knowledge during his sojourn here. In fact, he spoke quite

 confidently of getting his discharge at once. I believe that, had I

 not had the chat with Harker and read the letters and the dates of

 his outbursts, I should have been prepared to sign for him after a

 brief time of observation. As it is, I am darkly suspicious. All

 those outbreaks were in some way linked with the proximity of the

 Count. What then does this absolute content mean? Can it be that

 his instinct is satisfied as to the vampire’s ultimate triumph?

 Stay; he is himself zoöphagous, and in his wild ravings outside the

 chapel door of the deserted house he always spoke of “master.” This

 all seems confirmation of our idea. However, after a while I came

 away; my friend is just a little too sane at present to make it

 safe to probe him too deep with questions. He might begin to think,

 and then--! So I came away. I mistrust these quiet moods of his; so

 I have given the attendant a hint to look closely after him, and to

 have a strait-waistcoat ready in case of need.

_Jonathan Harker’s Journal._

_29 September, in train to London._--When I received Mr. Billington’s

courteous message that he would give me any information in his power I

thought it best to go down to Whitby and make, on the spot, such

inquiries as I wanted. It was now my object to trace that horrid cargo

of the Count’s to its place in London. Later, we may be able to deal

with it. Billington junior, a nice lad, met me at the station, and

brought me to his father’s house, where they had decided that I must

stay the night. They are hospitable, with true Yorkshire hospitality:

give a guest everything, and leave him free to do as he likes. They all

knew that I was busy, and that my stay was short, and Mr. Billington had

ready in his office all the papers concerning the consignment of boxes.

It gave me almost a turn to see again one of the letters which I had

seen on the Count’s table before I knew of his diabolical plans.

Everything had been carefully thought out, and done systematically and

with precision. He seemed to have been prepared for every obstacle which

might be placed by accident in the way of his intentions being carried

out. To use an Americanism, he had “taken no chances,” and the absolute

accuracy with which his instructions were fulfilled, was simply the

logical result of his care. I saw the invoice, and took note of it:

“Fifty cases of common earth, to be used for experimental purposes.”

Also the copy of letter to Carter Paterson, and their reply; of both of

these I got copies. This was all the information Mr. Billington could

give me, so I went down to the port and saw the coastguards, the Customs

officers and the harbour-master. They had all something to say of the

strange entry of the ship, which is already taking its place in local

tradition; but no one could add to the simple description “Fifty cases

of common earth.” I then saw the station-master, who kindly put me in

communication with the men who had actually received the boxes. Their

tally was exact with the list, and they had nothing to add except that

the boxes were “main and mortal heavy,” and that shifting them was dry