THE DAYS OF IMPRISONMENT.

The arrival of a second fighting-machine drove us from our peephole

into the scullery, for we feared that from his elevation the Martian

might see down upon us behind our barrier. At a later date we began to

feel less in danger of their eyes, for to an eye in the dazzle of the

sunlight outside our refuge must have been blank blackness, but at

first the slightest suggestion of approach drove us into the scullery

in heart-throbbing retreat. Yet terrible as was the danger we incurred,

the attraction of peeping was for both of us irresistible. And I recall

now with a sort of wonder that, in spite of the infinite danger in

which we were between starvation and a still more terrible death, we

could yet struggle bitterly for that horrible privilege of sight. We

would race across the kitchen in a grotesque way between eagerness and

the dread of making a noise, and strike each other, and thrust and

kick, within a few inches of exposure.

The fact is that we had absolutely incompatible dispositions and habits

of thought and action, and our danger and isolation only accentuated

the incompatibility. At Halliford I had already come to hate the

curate’s trick of helpless exclamation, his stupid rigidity of mind.

His endless muttering monologue vitiated every effort I made to think

out a line of action, and drove me at times, thus pent up and

intensified, almost to the verge of craziness. He was as lacking in

restraint as a silly woman. He would weep for hours together, and I

verily believe that to the very end this spoiled child of life thought

his weak tears in some way efficacious. And I would sit in the darkness

unable to keep my mind off him by reason of his importunities. He ate

more than I did, and it was in vain I pointed out that our only chance

of life was to stop in the house until the Martians had done with their

pit, that in that long patience a time might presently come when we

should need food. He ate and drank impulsively in heavy meals at long

intervals. He slept little.

As the days wore on, his utter carelessness of any consideration so

intensified our distress and danger that I had, much as I loathed doing

it, to resort to threats, and at last to blows. That brought him to

reason for a time. But he was one of those weak creatures, void of

pride, timorous, anæmic, hateful souls, full of shifty cunning, who

face neither God nor man, who face not even themselves.

It is disagreeable for me to recall and write these things, but I set

them down that my story may lack nothing. Those who have escaped the

dark and terrible aspects of life will find my brutality, my flash of

rage in our final tragedy, easy enough to blame; for they know what is

wrong as well as any, but not what is possible to tortured men. But

those who have been under the shadow, who have gone down at last to

elemental things, will have a wider charity.

And while within we fought out our dark, dim contest of whispers,

snatched food and drink, and gripping hands and blows, without, in the

pitiless sunlight of that terrible June, was the strange wonder, the

unfamiliar routine of the Martians in the pit. Let me return to those

first new experiences of mine. After a long time I ventured back to the

peephole, to find that the new-comers had been reinforced by the

occupants of no fewer than three of the fighting-machines. These last

had brought with them certain fresh appliances that stood in an orderly

manner about the cylinder. The second handling-machine was now

completed, and was busied in serving one of the novel contrivances the

big machine had brought. This was a body resembling a milk can in its

general form, above which oscillated a pear-shaped receptacle, and from

which a stream of white powder flowed into a circular basin below.

The oscillatory motion was imparted to this by one tentacle of the

handling-machine. With two spatulate hands the handling-machine was

digging out and flinging masses of clay into the pear-shaped receptacle

above, while with another arm it periodically opened a door and removed

rusty and blackened clinkers from the middle part of the machine.

Another steely tentacle directed the powder from the basin along a

ribbed channel towards some receiver that was hidden from me by the

mound of bluish dust. From this unseen receiver a little thread of

green smoke rose vertically into the quiet air. As I looked, the

handling-machine, with a faint and musical clinking, extended,

telescopic fashion, a tentacle that had been a moment before a mere

blunt projection, until its end was hidden behind the mound of clay. In

another second it had lifted a bar of white aluminium into sight,

untarnished as yet, and shining dazzlingly, and deposited it in a

growing stack of bars that stood at the side of the pit. Between sunset

and starlight this dexterous machine must have made more than a hundred

such bars out of the crude clay, and the mound of bluish dust rose