into which the second cylinder had fallen was being shelled, in the

hope of destroying that object before it opened. It was only about

five, however, that a field gun reached Chobham for use against the

first body of Martians.

About six in the evening, as I sat at tea with my wife in the

summerhouse talking vigorously about the battle that was lowering upon

us, I heard a muffled detonation from the common, and immediately after

a gust of firing. Close on the heels of that came a violent rattling

crash, quite close to us, that shook the ground; and, starting out upon

the lawn, I saw the tops of the trees about the Oriental College burst

into smoky red flame, and the tower of the little church beside it

slide down into ruin. The pinnacle of the mosque had vanished, and the

roof line of the college itself looked as if a hundred-ton gun had been

at work upon it. One of our chimneys cracked as if a shot had hit it,

flew, and a piece of it came clattering down the tiles and made a heap

of broken red fragments upon the flower bed by my study window.

I and my wife stood amazed. Then I realised that the crest of Maybury

Hill must be within range of the Martians’ Heat-Ray now that the

college was cleared out of the way.

At that I gripped my wife’s arm, and without ceremony ran her out into

the road. Then I fetched out the servant, telling her I would go

upstairs myself for the box she was clamouring for.

“We can’t possibly stay here,” I said; and as I spoke the firing

reopened for a moment upon the common.

“But where are we to go?” said my wife in terror.

I thought perplexed. Then I remembered her cousins at Leatherhead.

“Leatherhead!” I shouted above the sudden noise.

She looked away from me downhill. The people were coming out of their

houses, astonished.

“How are we to get to Leatherhead?” she said.

Down the hill I saw a bevy of hussars ride under the railway bridge;

three galloped through the open gates of the Oriental College; two

others dismounted, and began running from house to house. The sun,

shining through the smoke that drove up from the tops of the trees,

seemed blood red, and threw an unfamiliar lurid light upon everything.

“Stop here,” said I; “you are safe here”; and I started off at once for

the Spotted Dog, for I knew the landlord had a horse and dog cart. I

ran, for I perceived that in a moment everyone upon this side of the

hill would be moving. I found him in his bar, quite unaware of what was

going on behind his house. A man stood with his back to me, talking to

him.

“I must have a pound,” said the landlord, “and I’ve no one to drive

it.”

“I’ll give you two,” said I, over the stranger’s shoulder.

“What for?”

“And I’ll bring it back by midnight,” I said.

“Lord!” said the landlord; “what’s the hurry? I’m selling my bit of a

pig. Two pounds, and you bring it back? What’s going on now?”

I explained hastily that I had to leave my home, and so secured the dog

cart. At the time it did not seem to me nearly so urgent that the

landlord should leave his. I took care to have the cart there and then,

drove it off down the road, and, leaving it in charge of my wife and

servant, rushed into my house and packed a few valuables, such plate as

we had, and so forth. The beech trees below the house were burning

while I did this, and the palings up the road glowed red. While I was

occupied in this way, one of the dismounted hussars came running up. He

was going from house to house, warning people to leave. He was going on

as I came out of my front door, lugging my treasures, done up in a

tablecloth. I shouted after him:

“What news?”

He turned, stared, bawled something about “crawling out in a thing like

a dish cover,” and ran on to the gate of the house at the crest. A

sudden whirl of black smoke driving across the road hid him for a

moment. I ran to my neighbour’s door and rapped to satisfy myself of

what I already knew, that his wife had gone to London with him and had

locked up their house. I went in again, according to my promise, to get

my servant’s box, lugged it out, clapped it beside her on the tail of

the dog cart, and then caught the reins and jumped up into the driver’s

seat beside my wife. In another moment we were clear of the smoke and

noise, and spanking down the opposite slope of Maybury Hill towards Old

Woking.

In front was a quiet sunny landscape, a wheat field ahead on either