precipitance merely to show off before the ladies.”

“I daresay you believed it; but I am by no means convinced that you

would be gone with such celerity. Your conduct would be quite as

dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you were

mounting your horse, a friend were to say, ‘Bingley, you had better stay

till next week,’ you would probably do it--you would probably not

go--and, at another word, might stay a month.”

“You have only proved by this,” cried Elizabeth, “that Mr. Bingley did

not do justice to his own disposition. You have shown him off now much

more than he did himself.”

“I am exceedingly gratified,” said Bingley, “by your converting what my

friend says into a compliment on the sweetness of my temper. But I am

afraid you are giving it a turn which that gentleman did by no means

intend; for he would certainly think the better of me if, under such a

circumstance, I were to give a flat denial, and ride off as fast as I

could.”

“Would Mr. Darcy then consider the rashness of your original intention

as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?”

“Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter--Darcy must speak for

himself.”

“You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine,

but which I have never acknowledged. Allowing the case, however, to

stand according to your representation, you must remember, Miss Bennet,

that the friend who is supposed to desire his return to the house, and

the delay of his plan, has merely desired it, asked it without offering

one argument in favour of its propriety.”

“To yield readily--easily--to the _persuasion_ of a friend is no merit

with you.”

“To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of

either.”

“You appear to me, Mr. Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence of

friendship and affection. A regard for the requester would often make

one readily yield to a request, without waiting for arguments to reason

one into it. I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have

supposed about Mr. Bingley. We may as well wait, perhaps, till the

circumstance occurs, before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour

thereupon. But in general and ordinary cases, between friend and friend,

where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolution of no

very great moment, should you think ill of that person for complying

with the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?”

“Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to arrange

with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to

appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting

between the parties?”

“By all means,” cried Bingley; “let us hear all the particulars, not

forgetting their comparative height and size, for that will have more

weight in the argument, Miss Bennet, than you may be aware of. I assure

you that if Darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison with

myself, I should not pay him half so much deference. I declare I do not

know a more awful object than Darcy on particular occasions, and in

particular places; at his own house especially, and of a Sunday evening,

when he has nothing to do.”

Mr. Darcy smiled; but Elizabeth thought she could perceive that he was

rather offended, and therefore checked her laugh. Miss Bingley warmly

resented the indignity he had received, in an expostulation with her

brother for talking such nonsense.

“I see your design, Bingley,” said his friend. “You dislike an argument,

and want to silence this.”

“Perhaps I do. Arguments are too much like disputes. If you and Miss

Bennet will defer yours till I am out of the room, I shall be very

thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me.”

“What you ask,” said Elizabeth, “is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr.

Darcy had much better finish his letter.”

Mr. Darcy took her advice, and did finish his letter.

When that business was over, he applied to Miss Bingley and Elizabeth

for the indulgence of some music. Miss Bingley moved with alacrity to

the pianoforte, and after a polite request that Elizabeth would lead the

way, which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, she

seated herself.

Mrs. Hurst sang with her sister; and while they were thus employed,

Elizabeth could not help observing, as she turned over some music-books

that lay on the instrument, how frequently Mr. Darcy’s eyes were fixed

on her. She hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of

admiration to so great a man, and yet that he should look at her because

he disliked her was still more strange. She could only imagine, however,

at last, that she drew his notice because there was something about her

more wrong and reprehensible, according to his ideas of right, than in

any other person present. The supposition did not pain her. She liked

him too little to care for his approbation.

After playing some Italian songs, Miss Bingley varied the charm by a