“But will not the Count take his rebuff wisely? Since he has been driven

from England, will he not avoid it, as a tiger does the village from

which he has been hunted?”

“Aha!” he said, “your simile of the tiger good, for me, and I shall

adopt him. Your man-eater, as they of India call the tiger who has once

tasted blood of the human, care no more for the other prey, but prowl

unceasing till he get him. This that we hunt from our village is a

tiger, too, a man-eater, and he never cease to prowl. Nay, in himself he

is not one to retire and stay afar. In his life, his living life, he go

over the Turkey frontier and attack his enemy on his own ground; he be

beaten back, but did he stay? No! He come again, and again, and again.

Look at his persistence and endurance. With the child-brain that was to

him he have long since conceive the idea of coming to a great city. What

does he do? He find out the place of all the world most of promise for

him. Then he deliberately set himself down to prepare for the task. He

find in patience just how is his strength, and what are his powers. He

study new tongues. He learn new social life; new environment of old

ways, the politic, the law, the finance, the science, the habit of a new

land and a new people who have come to be since he was. His glimpse that

he have had, whet his appetite only and enkeen his desire. Nay, it help

him to grow as to his brain; for it all prove to him how right he was at

the first in his surmises. He have done this alone; all alone! from a

ruin tomb in a forgotten land. What more may he not do when the greater

world of thought is open to him. He that can smile at death, as we know

him; who can flourish in the midst of diseases that kill off whole

peoples. Oh, if such an one was to come from God, and not the Devil,

what a force for good might he not be in this old world of ours. But we

are pledged to set the world free. Our toil must be in silence, and our

efforts all in secret; for in this enlightened age, when men believe not

even what they see, the doubting of wise men would be his greatest

strength. It would be at once his sheath and his armour, and his weapons

to destroy us, his enemies, who are willing to peril even our own souls

for the safety of one we love--for the good of mankind, and for the

honour and glory of God.”

After a general discussion it was determined that for to-night nothing

be definitely settled; that we should all sleep on the facts, and try to

think out the proper conclusions. To-morrow, at breakfast, we are to

meet again, and, after making our conclusions known to one another, we

shall decide on some definite cause of action.

 * * * * *

I feel a wonderful peace and rest to-night. It is as if some haunting

presence were removed from me. Perhaps ...

My surmise was not finished, could not be; for I caught sight in the

mirror of the red mark upon my forehead; and I knew that I was still

unclean.

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_5 October._--We all rose early, and I think that sleep did much for

each and all of us. When we met at early breakfast there was more

general cheerfulness than any of us had ever expected to experience

again.

It is really wonderful how much resilience there is in human nature. Let

any obstructing cause, no matter what, be removed in any way--even by

death--and we fly back to first principles of hope and enjoyment. More

than once as we sat around the table, my eyes opened in wonder whether

the whole of the past days had not been a dream. It was only when I

caught sight of the red blotch on Mrs. Harker’s forehead that I was

brought back to reality. Even now, when I am gravely revolving the

matter, it is almost impossible to realise that the cause of all our

trouble is still existent. Even Mrs. Harker seems to lose sight of her

trouble for whole spells; it is only now and again, when something

recalls it to her mind, that she thinks of her terrible scar. We are to

meet here in my study in half an hour and decide on our course of

action. I see only one immediate difficulty, I know it by instinct