confer alone again. We went at once into our Plan of Campaign. Van

Helsing roughly put the facts before us first:--

“The _Czarina Catherine_ left the Thames yesterday morning. It will take

her at the quickest speed she has ever made at least three weeks to

reach Varna; but we can travel overland to the same place in three days.

Now, if we allow for two days less for the ship’s voyage, owing to such

weather influences as we know that the Count can bring to bear; and if

we allow a whole day and night for any delays which may occur to us,

then we have a margin of nearly two weeks. Thus, in order to be quite

safe, we must leave here on 17th at latest. Then we shall at any rate

be in Varna a day before the ship arrives, and able to make such

preparations as may be necessary. Of course we shall all go armed--armed

against evil things, spiritual as well as physical.” Here Quincey Morris

added:--

“I understand that the Count comes from a wolf country, and it may be

that he shall get there before us. I propose that we add Winchesters to

our armament. I have a kind of belief in a Winchester when there is any

trouble of that sort around. Do you remember, Art, when we had the pack

after us at Tobolsk? What wouldn’t we have given then for a repeater

apiece!”

“Good!” said Van Helsing, “Winchesters it shall be. Quincey’s head is

level at all times, but most so when there is to hunt, metaphor be more

dishonour to science than wolves be of danger to man. In the meantime we

can do nothing here; and as I think that Varna is not familiar to any of

us, why not go there more soon? It is as long to wait here as there.

To-night and to-morrow we can get ready, and then, if all be well, we

four can set out on our journey.”

“We four?” said Harker interrogatively, looking from one to another of

us.

“Of course!” answered the Professor quickly, “you must remain to take

care of your so sweet wife!” Harker was silent for awhile and then said

in a hollow voice:--

“Let us talk of that part of it in the morning. I want to consult with

Mina.” I thought that now was the time for Van Helsing to warn him not

to disclose our plans to her; but he took no notice. I looked at him

significantly and coughed. For answer he put his finger on his lips and

turned away.

_Jonathan Harker’s Journal._

_5 October, afternoon._--For some time after our meeting this morning I

could not think. The new phases of things leave my mind in a state of

wonder which allows no room for active thought. Mina’s determination not

to take any part in the discussion set me thinking; and as I could not

argue the matter with her, I could only guess. I am as far as ever from

a solution now. The way the others received it, too, puzzled me; the

last time we talked of the subject we agreed that there was to be no

more concealment of anything amongst us. Mina is sleeping now, calmly

and sweetly like a little child. Her lips are curved and her face beams

with happiness. Thank God, there are such moments still for her.

 * * * * *

_Later._--How strange it all is. I sat watching Mina’s happy sleep, and

came as near to being happy myself as I suppose I shall ever be. As the

evening drew on, and the earth took its shadows from the sun sinking

lower, the silence of the room grew more and more solemn to me. All at

once Mina opened her eyes, and looking at me tenderly, said:--

“Jonathan, I want you to promise me something on your word of honour. A

promise made to me, but made holily in God’s hearing, and not to be

broken though I should go down on my knees and implore you with bitter

tears. Quick, you must make it to me at once.”

“Mina,” I said, “a promise like that, I cannot make at once. I may have

no right to make it.”

“But, dear one,” she said, with such spiritual intensity that her eyes

were like pole stars, “it is I who wish it; and it is not for myself.

You can ask Dr. Van Helsing if I am not right; if he disagrees you may

do as you will. Nay, more, if you all agree, later, you are absolved

from the promise.”

“I promise!” I said, and for a moment she looked supremely happy; though

to me all happiness for her was denied by the red scar on her forehead.

She said:--

“Promise me that you will not tell me anything of the plans formed for