“Not that I remember,” said the child. “If thou fearest to leave me in

our cottage, thou mightest take me along with thee. I would very

gladly go! But, mother, tell me now! Is there such a Black Man? And

didst thou ever meet him? And is this his mark?”

“Wilt thou let me be at peace, if I once tell thee?” asked her mother.

“Yes, if thou tellest me all,” answered Pearl.

“Once in my life I met the Black Man!” said her mother. “This scarlet

letter is his mark!”

Thus conversing, they entered sufficiently deep into the wood to

secure themselves from the observation of any casual passenger along

the forest track. Here they sat down on a luxuriant heap of moss;

which, at some epoch of the preceding century, had been a gigantic

pine, with its roots and trunk in the darksome shade, and its head

aloft in the upper atmosphere. It was a little dell where they had

seated themselves, with a leaf-strewn bank rising gently on either

side, and a brook flowing through the midst, over a bed of fallen and

drowned leaves. The trees impending over it had flung down great

branches, from time to time, which choked up the current and compelled

it to form eddies and black depths at some points; while, in its

swifter and livelier passages, there appeared a channel-way of

pebbles, and brown, sparkling sand. Letting the eyes follow along the

course of the stream, they could catch the reflected light from its

water, at some short distance within the forest, but soon lost all

traces of it amid the bewilderment of tree-trunks and underbrush, and

here and there a huge rock covered over with gray lichens. All these

giant trees and bowlders of granite seemed intent on making a mystery

of the course of this small brook; fearing, perhaps, that, with its

never-ceasing loquacity, it should whisper tales out of the heart of

the old forest whence it flowed, or mirror its revelations on the

smooth surface of a pool. Continually, indeed, as it stole onward, the

streamlet kept up a babble, kind, quiet, soothing, but melancholy,

like the voice of a young child that was spending its infancy without

playfulness, and knew not how to be merry among sad acquaintance and

events of sombre hue.

“O brook! O foolish and tiresome little brook!” cried Pearl, after

listening awhile to its talk. “Why art thou so sad? Pluck up a spirit,

and do not be all the time sighing and murmuring!”

But the brook, in the course of its little lifetime among the

forest-trees, had gone through so solemn an experience that it could

not help talking about it, and seemed to have nothing else to say.

Pearl resembled the brook, inasmuch as the current of her life gushed

from a well-spring as mysterious, and had flowed through scenes

shadowed as heavily with gloom. But, unlike the little stream, she

danced and sparkled, and prattled airily along her course.

“What does this sad little brook say, mother?” inquired she.

“If thou hadst a sorrow of thine own, the brook might tell thee of

it,” answered her mother, “even as it is telling me of mine! But now,

Pearl, I hear a footstep along the path, and the noise of one putting

aside the branches. I would have thee betake thyself to play, and

leave me to speak with him that comes yonder.”

“Is it the Black Man?” asked Pearl.

“Wilt thou go and play, child?” repeated her mother. “But do not stray

far into the wood. And take heed that thou come at my first call.”

“Yes, mother,” answered Pearl. “But if it be the Black Man, wilt thou

not let me stay a moment, and look at him, with his big book under his

arm?”

“Go, silly child!” said her mother, impatiently. “It is no Black Man!

Thou canst see him now, through the trees. It is the minister!”

“And so it is!” said the child. “And, mother, he has his hand over his

heart! Is it because, when the minister wrote his name in the book,

the Black Man set his mark in that place? But why does he not wear it

outside his bosom, as thou dost, mother?”

“Go now, child, and thou shalt tease me as thou wilt another time,”

cried Hester Prynne. “But do not stray far. Keep where thou canst hear

the babble of the brook.”

The child went singing away, following up the current of the brook,

and striving to mingle a more lightsome cadence with its melancholy

voice. But the little stream would not be comforted, and still kept

telling its unintelligible secret of some very mournful mystery that