the campaign against the Count. Not by word, or inference, or

implication; not at any time whilst this remains to me!” and she

solemnly pointed to the scar. I saw that she was in earnest, and said

solemnly:--

“I promise!” and as I said it I felt that from that instant a door had

been shut between us.

 * * * * *

_Later, midnight._--Mina has been bright and cheerful all the evening.

So much so that all the rest seemed to take courage, as if infected

somewhat with her gaiety; as a result even I myself felt as if the pall

of gloom which weighs us down were somewhat lifted. We all retired

early. Mina is now sleeping like a little child; it is a wonderful thing

that her faculty of sleep remains to her in the midst of her terrible

trouble. Thank God for it, for then at least she can forget her care.

Perhaps her example may affect me as her gaiety did to-night. I shall

try it. Oh! for a dreamless sleep.

 * * * * *

_6 October, morning._--Another surprise. Mina woke me early, about the

same time as yesterday, and asked me to bring Dr. Van Helsing. I thought

that it was another occasion for hypnotism, and without question went

for the Professor. He had evidently expected some such call, for I found

him dressed in his room. His door was ajar, so that he could hear the

opening of the door of our room. He came at once; as he passed into the

room, he asked Mina if the others might come, too.

“No,” she said quite simply, “it will not be necessary. You can tell

them just as well. I must go with you on your journey.”

Dr. Van Helsing was as startled as I was. After a moment’s pause he

asked:--

“But why?”

“You must take me with you. I am safer with you, and you shall be safer,

too.”

“But why, dear Madam Mina? You know that your safety is our solemnest

duty. We go into danger, to which you are, or may be, more liable than

any of us from--from circumstances--things that have been.” He paused,

embarrassed.

As she replied, she raised her finger and pointed to her forehead:--

“I know. That is why I must go. I can tell you now, whilst the sun is

coming up; I may not be able again. I know that when the Count wills me

I must go. I know that if he tells me to come in secret, I must come by

wile; by any device to hoodwink--even Jonathan.” God saw the look that

she turned on me as she spoke, and if there be indeed a Recording Angel

that look is noted to her everlasting honour. I could only clasp her

hand. I could not speak; my emotion was too great for even the relief of

tears. She went on:--

“You men are brave and strong. You are strong in your numbers, for you

can defy that which would break down the human endurance of one who had

to guard alone. Besides, I may be of service, since you can hypnotise me

and so learn that which even I myself do not know.” Dr. Van Helsing said

very gravely:--

“Madam Mina, you are, as always, most wise. You shall with us come; and

together we shall do that which we go forth to achieve.” When he had

spoken, Mina’s long spell of silence made me look at her. She had fallen

back on her pillow asleep; she did not even wake when I had pulled up

the blind and let in the sunlight which flooded the room. Van Helsing

motioned to me to come with him quietly. We went to his room, and within

a minute Lord Godalming, Dr. Seward, and Mr. Morris were with us also.

He told them what Mina had said, and went on:--

“In the morning we shall leave for Varna. We have now to deal with a

new factor: Madam Mina. Oh, but her soul is true. It is to her an agony

to tell us so much as she has done; but it is most right, and we are

warned in time. There must be no chance lost, and in Varna we must be

ready to act the instant when that ship arrives.”