 Rom. With Loues light wings

Did I ore-perch these Walls,

For stony limits cannot hold Loue out,

And what Loue can do, that dares Loue attempt:

Therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me

 Iul. If they do see thee, they will murther thee

 Rom. Alacke there lies more perill in thine eye,

Then twenty of their Swords, looke thou but sweete,

And I am proofe against their enmity

 Iul. I would not for the world they saw thee here

 Rom. I haue nights cloake to hide me from their eyes

And but thou loue me, let them finde me here,

My life were better ended by their hate,

Then death proroged wanting of thy Loue

 Iul. By whose direction found'st thou out this place?

 Rom. By Loue that first did prompt me to enquire,

He lent me counsell, and I lent him eyes,

I am no Pylot, yet wert thou as far

As that vast-shore-washet with the farthest Sea,

I should aduenture for such Marchandise

 Iul. Thou knowest the maske of night is on my face,

Else would a Maiden blush bepaint my cheeke,

For that which thou hast heard me speake to night,

Faine would I dwell on forme, faine, faine, denie

What I haue spoke, but farewell Complement,

Doest thou Loue? I know thou wilt say I,

And I will take thy word, yet if thou swear'st,

Thou maiest proue false: at Louers periuries

They say Ioue laught, oh gentle Romeo,

If thou dost Loue, pronounce it faithfully:

Or if thou thinkest I am too quickly wonne,

Ile frowne and be peruerse, and say thee nay,

So thou wilt wooe: But else not for the world.

In truth faire Mountague I am too fond:

And therefore thou maiest thinke my behauiour light,

But trust me Gentleman, Ile proue more true,

Then those that haue coying to be strange,

I should haue beene more strange, I must confesse,

But that thou ouer heard'st ere I was ware

My true Loues passion, therefore pardon me,

And not impute this yeelding to light Loue,

Which the darke night hath so discouered

 Rom. Lady, by yonder Moone I vow,

That tips with siluer all these Fruite tree tops

 Iul. O sweare not by the Moone, th' inconstant Moone,

That monethly changes in her circled Orbe,

Least that thy Loue proue likewise variable

 Rom. What shall I sweare by?

 Iul. Do not sweare at all:

Or if thou wilt sweare by thy gratious selfe,

Which is the God of my Idolatry,

And Ile beleeue thee

 Rom. If my hearts deare loue

 Iuli. Well do not sweare, although I ioy in thee:

I haue no ioy of this contract to night,

It is too rash, too vnaduis'd, too sudden,

Too like the lightning which doth cease to be

Ere, one can say, it lightens, Sweete good night:

This bud of Loue by Summers ripening breath,

May proue a beautious Flower when next we meete:

Goodnight, goodnight, as sweete repose and rest,

Come to thy heart, as that within my brest

 Rom. O wilt thou leaue me so vnsatisfied?

 Iuli. What satisfaction can'st thou haue to night?

 Ro. Th' exchange of thy Loues faithfull vow for mine

 Iul. I gaue thee mine before thou did'st request it:

And yet I would it were to giue againe

 Rom. Would'st thou withdraw it,

For what purpose Loue?

 Iul. But to be franke and giue it thee againe,

And yet I wish but for the thing I haue,

My bounty is as boundlesse as the Sea,

My Loue as deepe, the more I giue to thee

The more I haue, for both are Infinite:

I heare some noyse within deare Loue adue:

Cals within.

Anon good Nurse, sweet Mountague be true:

Stay but a little, I will come againe