killing. The man is an undeveloped homicidal maniac. I shall test him

with his present craving and see how it will work out; then I shall know

more.

 * * * * *

_10 p. m._--I have visited him again and found him sitting in a corner

brooding. When I came in he threw himself on his knees before me and

implored me to let him have a cat; that his salvation depended upon it.

I was firm, however, and told him that he could not have it, whereupon

he went without a word, and sat down, gnawing his fingers, in the corner

where I had found him. I shall see him in the morning early.

 * * * * *

_20 July._--Visited Renfield very early, before the attendant went his

rounds. Found him up and humming a tune. He was spreading out his sugar,

which he had saved, in the window, and was manifestly beginning his

fly-catching again; and beginning it cheerfully and with a good grace. I

looked around for his birds, and not seeing them, asked him where they

were. He replied, without turning round, that they had all flown away.

There were a few feathers about the room and on his pillow a drop of

blood. I said nothing, but went and told the keeper to report to me if

there were anything odd about him during the day.

 * * * * *

_11 a. m._--The attendant has just been to me to say that Renfield has

been very sick and has disgorged a whole lot of feathers. “My belief is,

doctor,” he said, “that he has eaten his birds, and that he just took

and ate them raw!”

 * * * * *

_11 p. m._--I gave Renfield a strong opiate to-night, enough to make

even him sleep, and took away his pocket-book to look at it. The thought

that has been buzzing about my brain lately is complete, and the theory

proved. My homicidal maniac is of a peculiar kind. I shall have to

invent a new classification for him, and call him a zoöphagous

(life-eating) maniac; what he desires is to absorb as many lives as he

can, and he has laid himself out to achieve it in a cumulative way. He

gave many flies to one spider and many spiders to one bird, and then

wanted a cat to eat the many birds. What would have been his later

steps? It would almost be worth while to complete the experiment. It

might be done if there were only a sufficient cause. Men sneered at

vivisection, and yet look at its results to-day! Why not advance science

in its most difficult and vital aspect--the knowledge of the brain? Had

I even the secret of one such mind--did I hold the key to the fancy of

even one lunatic--I might advance my own branch of science to a pitch

compared with which Burdon-Sanderson’s physiology or Ferrier’s

brain-knowledge would be as nothing. If only there were a sufficient

cause! I must not think too much of this, or I may be tempted; a good

cause might turn the scale with me, for may not I too be of an

exceptional brain, congenitally?

How well the man reasoned; lunatics always do within their own scope. I

wonder at how many lives he values a man, or if at only one. He has

closed the account most accurately, and to-day begun a new record. How

many of us begin a new record with each day of our lives?

To me it seems only yesterday that my whole life ended with my new hope,

and that truly I began a new record. So it will be until the Great

Recorder sums me up and closes my ledger account with a balance to

profit or loss. Oh, Lucy, Lucy, I cannot be angry with you, nor can I be

angry with my friend whose happiness is yours; but I must only wait on

hopeless and work. Work! work!

If I only could have as strong a cause as my poor mad friend there--a

good, unselfish cause to make me work--that would be indeed happiness.

_Mina Murray’s Journal._

_26 July._--I am anxious, and it soothes me to express myself here; it

is like whispering to one’s self and listening at the same time. And

there is also something about the shorthand symbols that makes it

different from writing. I am unhappy about Lucy and about Jonathan. I

had not heard from Jonathan for some time, and was very concerned; but

yesterday dear Mr. Hawkins, who is always so kind, sent me a letter from

him. I had written asking him if he had heard, and he said the enclosed