tortured him! It was his genuine impulse to adore the truth, and to

reckon all things shadow-like, and utterly devoid of weight or value,

that had not its divine essence as the life within their life. Then,

what was he?—a substance?—or the dimmest of all shadows? He longed

to speak out, from his own pulpit, at the full height of his voice,

and tell the people what he was. “I, whom you behold in these black

garments of the priesthood,—I, who ascend the sacred desk, and turn

my pale face heavenward, taking upon myself to hold communion, in your

behalf, with the Most High Omniscience,—I, in whose daily life you

discern the sanctity of Enoch,—I, whose footsteps, as you suppose,

leave a gleam along my earthly track, whereby the pilgrims that shall

come after me may be guided to the regions of the blest,—I, who have

laid the hand of baptism upon your children,—I, who have breathed the

parting prayer over your dying friends, to whom the Amen sounded

faintly from a world which they had quitted,—I, your pastor, whom you

so reverence and trust, am utterly a pollution and a lie!”

More than once, Mr. Dimmesdale had gone into the pulpit, with a

purpose never to come down its steps, until he should have spoken

words like the above. More than once, he had cleared his throat, and

drawn in the long, deep, and tremulous breath, which, when sent forth

again, would come burdened with the black secret of his soul. More

than once—nay, more than a hundred times—he had actually spoken!

Spoken! But how? He had told his hearers that he was altogether vile,

a viler companion of the vilest, the worst of sinners, an abomination,

a thing of unimaginable iniquity; and that the only wonder was, that

they did not see his wretched body shrivelled up before their eyes, by

the burning wrath of the Almighty! Could there be plainer speech than

this? Would not the people start up in their seats, by a simultaneous

impulse, and tear him down out of the pulpit which he defiled? Not so,

indeed! They heard it all, and did but reverence him the more. They

little guessed what deadly purport lurked in those self-condemning

words. “The godly youth!” said they among themselves. “The saint on

earth! Alas, if he discern such sinfulness in his own white soul, what

horrid spectacle would he behold in thine or mine!” The minister well

knew—subtle, but remorseful hypocrite that he was!—the light in

which his vague confession would be viewed. He had striven to put a

cheat upon himself by making the avowal of a guilty conscience, but

had gained only one other sin, and a self-acknowledged shame, without

the momentary relief of being self-deceived. He had spoken the very

truth, and transformed it into the veriest falsehood. And yet, by the

constitution of his nature, he loved the truth, and loathed the lie,

as few men ever did. Therefore, above all things else, he loathed his

miserable self!

His inward trouble drove him to practices more in accordance with the

old, corrupted faith of Rome, than with the better light of the church

in which he had been born and bred. In Mr. Dimmesdale’s secret closet,

under lock and key, there was a bloody scourge. Oftentimes, this

Protestant and Puritan divine had plied it on his own shoulders;

laughing bitterly at himself the while, and smiting so much the more

pitilessly because of that bitter laugh. It was his custom, too, as it

has been that of many other pious Puritans, to fast,—not, however,

like them, in order to purify the body and render it the fitter medium

of celestial illumination, but rigorously, and until his knees

trembled beneath him, as an act of penance. He kept vigils, likewise,

night after night, sometimes in utter darkness; sometimes with a

glimmering lamp; and sometimes, viewing his own face in a

looking-glass, by the most powerful light which he could throw upon

it. He thus typified the constant introspection wherewith he tortured,

but could not purify, himself. In these lengthened vigils, his brain

often reeled, and visions seemed to flit before him; perhaps seen

doubtfully, and by a faint light of their own, in the remote dimness

of the chamber, or more vividly, and close beside him, within the

looking-glass. Now it was a herd of diabolic shapes, that grinned and

mocked at the pale minister, and beckoned him away with them; now a

group of shining angels, who flew upward heavily, as sorrow-laden, but

grew more ethereal as they rose. Now came the dead friends of his

youth, and his white-bearded father, with a saint-like frown, and his

mother, turning her face away as she passed by. Ghost of a

mother,—thinnest fantasy of a mother,—methinks she might yet have