the groove of my life. The groove ceased to avail me, and I mistrusted

myself. Doctor, you don’t know what it is to doubt everything, even

yourself. No, you don’t; you couldn’t with eyebrows like yours.” He

seemed pleased, and laughed as he said:--

“So! You are physiognomist. I learn more here with each hour. I am with

so much pleasure coming to you to breakfast; and, oh, sir, you will

pardon praise from an old man, but you are blessed in your wife.” I

would listen to him go on praising Mina for a day, so I simply nodded

and stood silent.

“She is one of God’s women, fashioned by His own hand to show us men and

other women that there is a heaven where we can enter, and that its

light can be here on earth. So true, so sweet, so noble, so little an

egoist--and that, let me tell you, is much in this age, so sceptical and

selfish. And you, sir--I have read all the letters to poor Miss Lucy,

and some of them speak of you, so I know you since some days from the

knowing of others; but I have seen your true self since last night. You

will give me your hand, will you not? And let us be friends for all our

lives.”

We shook hands, and he was so earnest and so kind that it made me quite

choky.

“And now,” he said, “may I ask you for some more help? I have a great

task to do, and at the beginning it is to know. You can help me here.

Can you tell me what went before your going to Transylvania? Later on I

may ask more help, and of a different kind; but at first this will do.”

“Look here, sir,” I said, “does what you have to do concern the Count?”

“It does,” he said solemnly.

“Then I am with you heart and soul. As you go by the 10:30 train, you

will not have time to read them; but I shall get the bundle of papers.

You can take them with you and read them in the train.”

After breakfast I saw him to the station. When we were parting he

said:--

“Perhaps you will come to town if I send to you, and take Madam Mina

too.”

“We shall both come when you will,” I said.

I had got him the morning papers and the London papers of the previous

night, and while we were talking at the carriage window, waiting for the

train to start, he was turning them over. His eyes suddenly seemed to

catch something in one of them, “The Westminster Gazette”--I knew it by

the colour--and he grew quite white. He read something intently,

groaning to himself: “Mein Gott! Mein Gott! So soon! so soon!” I do not

think he remembered me at the moment. Just then the whistle blew, and

the train moved off. This recalled him to himself, and he leaned out of

the window and waved his hand, calling out: “Love to Madam Mina; I shall

write so soon as ever I can.”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_26 September._--Truly there is no such thing as finality. Not a week

since I said “Finis,” and yet here I am starting fresh again, or rather

going on with the same record. Until this afternoon I had no cause to

think of what is done. Renfield had become, to all intents, as sane as

he ever was. He was already well ahead with his fly business; and he had

just started in the spider line also; so he had not been of any trouble

to me. I had a letter from Arthur, written on Sunday, and from it I

gather that he is bearing up wonderfully well. Quincey Morris is with

him, and that is much of a help, for he himself is a bubbling well of

good spirits. Quincey wrote me a line too, and from him I hear that

Arthur is beginning to recover something of his old buoyancy; so as to

them all my mind is at rest. As for myself, I was settling down to my

work with the enthusiasm which I used to have for it, so that I might

fairly have said that the wound which poor Lucy left on me was becoming

cicatrised. Everything is, however, now reopened; and what is to be the

end God only knows. I have an idea that Van Helsing thinks he knows,

too, but he will only let out enough at a time to whet curiosity. He

went to Exeter yesterday, and stayed there all night. To-day he came

back, and almost bounded into the room at about half-past five o’clock,