match.

“Well, my dear,” said he, when she ceased speaking, “I have no more to

say. If this be the case, he deserves you. I could not have parted with

you, my Lizzy, to anyone less worthy.”

To complete the favourable impression, she then told him what Mr. Darcy

had voluntarily done for Lydia. He heard her with astonishment.

“This is an evening of wonders, indeed! And so, Darcy did everything;

made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow’s debts, and got him

his commission! So much the better. It will save me a world of trouble

and economy. Had it been your uncle’s doing, I must and _would_ have

paid him; but these violent young lovers carry everything their own

way. I shall offer to pay him to-morrow, he will rant and storm about

his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter.”

He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before on his reading

Mr. Collins’s letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her

at last to go, saying, as she quitted the room, “If any young men come

for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure.”

Elizabeth’s mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight; and, after

half an hour’s quiet reflection in her own room, she was able to join

the others with tolerable composure. Everything was too recent for

gaiety, but the evening passed tranquilly away; there was no longer

anything material to be dreaded, and the comfort of ease and familiarity

would come in time.

When her mother went up to her dressing-room at night, she followed her,

and made the important communication. Its effect was most extraordinary;

for, on first hearing it, Mrs. Bennet sat quite still, and unable to

utter a syllable. Nor was it under many, many minutes, that she could

comprehend what she heard, though not in general backward to credit what

was for the advantage of her family, or that came in the shape of a

lover to any of them. She began at length to recover, to fidget about in

her chair, get up, sit down again, wonder, and bless herself.

“Good gracious! Lord bless me! only think! dear me! Mr. Darcy! Who would

have thought it? And is it really true? Oh, my sweetest Lizzy! how rich

and how great you will be! What pin-money, what jewels, what carriages

you will have! Jane’s is nothing to it--nothing at all. I am so

pleased--so happy. Such a charming man! so handsome! so tall! Oh, my

dear Lizzy! pray apologize for my having disliked him so much before. I

hope he will overlook it. Dear, dear Lizzy. A house in town! Everything

that is charming! Three daughters married! Ten thousand a year! Oh,

Lord! what will become of me? I shall go distracted.”

This was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted; and

Elizabeth, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by herself,

soon went away. But before she had been three minutes in her own room,

her mother followed her.

“My dearest child,” she cried, “I can think of nothing else. Ten

thousand a year, and very likely more! ’Tis as good as a lord! And a

special licence--you must and shall be married by a special licence.

But, my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is particularly fond

of, that I may have it to-morrow.”

This was a sad omen of what her mother’s behaviour to the gentleman

himself might be; and Elizabeth found that, though in the certain

possession of his warmest affection, and secure of her relations’

consent, there was still something to be wished for. But the morrow

passed off much better than she expected; for Mrs. Bennet luckily stood

in such awe of her intended son-in-law, that she ventured not to speak

to him, unless it was in her power to offer him any attention, or mark

her deference for his opinion.