"Mr. Nestor hasn't reached home yet, and as he promised to return at

once in case he didn't find me, his wife is much worried. I'll go over

and see what I can do."

"I'll come along!" volunteered Mr. Damon. "It isn't late yet."

"Yes, do come," urged Tom. "But I suppose when we get there we'll find

our friend has arrived safely. We'll go over in the electric runabout."

CHAPTER XV

A VAIN SEARCH

Tom Swift's speedy little electric car was soon at the door in

readiness to take him and Mr. Damon to the Nestor home. The electric

runabout was a machine Tom had evolved in his early inventive days, and

though he had other automobiles, none was quite so fast or so simple to

run as this, which well merited the name of the most rapid machine on

the road. In it Tom had once won a great race, as has been related in

the book bearing the title, "Tom Swift and His Electric Runabout."

"Mary didn't telephone again, did she?" Tom asked his father, as he

stopped at the house to get Mr. Damon, having gone out to see about

getting the electric runabout in readiness.

"No," was the answer. "The telephone hasn't rung since."

"Then, I guess, Mr. Nestor can't have arrived home," said Tom. "It's a

bit queer, his delay, but I'm sure it will be explained naturally. Only

Mary and her mother are alone and, very likely, they're nervous. I'll

telephone to let you know everything is all right as soon as I get

there," Tom promised his father and Mrs. Baggert as he drove off down

the road, partly illuminated by the new moon.

Rapidly and almost as silently as his Air Scout Tom Swift drove the

speedy car down the highway. It was about three miles from his home to

that of Mary Nestor, and though the distance was quickly covered, to

Tom, at least, the space seemed interminable. But at length he drove

up to the door. There were lights in most of the rooms, which was

unusual at this time of night.

The sound of the wheels had not ceased echoing on the gravel of the

drive before Mary was out on the porch, which she illuminated by an

overhead light.

"Oh, Tom," she cried, "he hasn't come yet, and we are so worried! Did

you see anything of father as you came along?"

"No," was Tom's answer. "But we didn't look for him along the road, as

we came by the turnpike, and he wouldn't travel that way. But he will

be along at any moment now. You must remember it's quite a walk from my

house, and--"

"But he was on his bicycle," said Mary. "We wanted him to go in the

auto, but he said he wanted some exercise after supper, and he went

over on his wheel. He said he'd be right back, but he hasn't come yet."

"Oh, he will!" said Tom reassuringly. "He may have had a puncture, or

something like that. Bicyclists are just as liable to them as

autoists," he added with a laugh.

"Well, I'm sure I hope it will be all right," sighed Mary. "I wish you

could convince mother to that effect. She's as nervous as a cat. Come

in and tell us what to do."

"Oh, he'll be all right," declared Mr. Damon, adding his assurances to

Tom's.

They found Mrs. Nestor verging on an attack of hysteria. Though Mr.

Nestor often went out during the evening, he seldom stayed late.

"And he said he'd be right back if he found you weren't at home, Tom,"

said Mrs. Nestor. "I'm sure I don't know what can be keeping him!"

"It's too soon to get worried yet," replied the young inventor

cheerfully. "I'll wait a little while, and then, if he doesn't come,

Mr. Damon and I will go back over the road and look carefully. He may

have had a slight fall--sprained his ankle or something like that--and

not be able to ride. We came by the turnpike, a road he probably

wouldn't take on his wheel. He's all right, you may be sure of that."

Tom tried to speak reassuringly, but somehow, he did not believe

himself. He was beginning to think more and more how strange it was

that Mr. Nestor did not return home.

"We'll wait just a bit longer before setting out on a search," he told