brooding deepest in their hearts. So long estranged by fate and

circumstances, they needed something slight and casual to run before,

and throw open the doors of intercourse, so that their real thoughts

might be led across the threshold.

After a while, the minister fixed his eyes on Hester Prynne’s.

“Hester,” said he, “hast thou found peace?”

She smiled drearily, looking down upon her bosom.

“Hast thou?” she asked.

“None!—nothing but despair!” he answered. “What else could I look

for, being what I am, and leading such a life as mine? Were I an

atheist,—a man devoid of conscience,—a wretch with coarse and brutal

instincts,—I might have found peace, long ere now. Nay, I never

should have lost it! But, as matters stand with my soul, whatever of

good capacity there originally was in me, all of God’s gifts that were

the choicest have become the ministers of spiritual torment. Hester, I

am most miserable!”

“The people reverence thee,” said Hester. “And surely thou workest

good among them! Doth this bring thee no comfort?”

“More misery, Hester!—only the more misery!” answered the clergyman,

with a bitter smile. “As concerns the good which I may appear to do, I

have no faith in it. It must needs be a delusion. What can a ruined

soul, like mine, effect towards the redemption of other souls?—or a

polluted soul towards their purification? And as for the people’s

reverence, would that it were turned to scorn and hatred! Canst thou

deem it, Hester, a consolation, that I must stand up in my pulpit, and

meet so many eyes turned upward to my face, as if the light of heaven

were beaming from it!—must see my flock hungry for the truth, and

listening to my words as if a tongue of Pentecost were speaking!—and

then look inward, and discern the black reality of what they idolize?

I have laughed, in bitterness and agony of heart, at the contrast

between what I seem and what I am! And Satan laughs at it!”

“You wrong yourself in this,” said Hester, gently. “You have deeply

and sorely repented. Your sin is left behind you, in the days long

past. Your present life is not less holy, in very truth, than it seems

in people’s eyes. Is there no reality in the penitence thus sealed and

witnessed by good works? And wherefore should it not bring you peace?”

“No, Hester, no!” replied the clergyman. “There is no substance in it!

It is cold and dead, and can do nothing for me! Of penance, I have had

enough! Of penitence, there has been none! Else, I should long ago

have thrown off these garments of mock holiness, and have shown myself

to mankind as they will see me at the judgment-seat. Happy are you,

Hester, that wear the scarlet letter openly upon your bosom! Mine

burns in secret! Thou little knowest what a relief it is, after the

torment of a seven years’ cheat, to look into an eye that recognizes

me for what I am! Had I one friend,—or were it my worst enemy!—to

whom, when sickened with the praises of all other men, I could daily

betake myself, and be known as the vilest of all sinners, methinks my

soul might keep itself alive thereby. Even thus much of truth would

save me! But, now, it is all falsehood!—all emptiness!—all death!”

Hester Prynne looked into his face, but hesitated to speak. Yet,

uttering his long-restrained emotions so vehemently as he did, his

words here offered her the very point of circumstances in which to

interpose what she came to say. She conquered her fears, and spoke.

“Such a friend as thou hast even now wished for,” said she, “with whom

to weep over thy sin, thou hast in me, the partner of it!”—Again she

hesitated, but brought out the words with an effort.—“Thou hast long

had such an enemy, and dwellest with him, under the same roof!”

The minister started to his feet, gasping for breath, and clutching at

his heart, as if he would have torn it out of his bosom.

“Ha! What sayest thou!” cried he. “An enemy! And under mine own roof!

What mean you?”

Hester Prynne was now fully sensible of the deep injury for which she

was responsible to this unhappy man, in permitting him to lie for so

many years, or, indeed, for a single moment, at the mercy of one whose