“I see the child,” observed the minister. “Yonder she is, standing in

a streak of sunshine, a good way off, on the other side of the brook.

So thou thinkest the child will love me?”

Hester smiled, and again called to Pearl, who was visible, at some

distance, as the minister had described her, like a bright-apparelled

vision, in a sunbeam, which fell down upon her through an arch of

boughs. The ray quivered to and fro, making her figure dim or

distinct,—now like a real child, now like a child’s spirit,—as the

splendor went and came again. She heard her mother’s voice, and

approached slowly through the forest.

Pearl had not found the hour pass wearisomely, while her mother sat

talking with the clergyman. The great black forest—stern as it showed

itself to those who brought the guilt and troubles of the world into

its bosom—became the playmate of the lonely infant, as well as it

knew how. Sombre as it was, it put on the kindest of its moods to

welcome her. It offered her the partridge-berries, the growth of the

preceding autumn, but ripening only in the spring, and now red as

drops of blood upon the withered leaves. These Pearl gathered, and was

pleased with their wild flavor. The small denizens of the wilderness

hardly took pains to move out of her path. A partridge, indeed, with a

brood of ten behind her, ran forward threateningly, but soon repented

of her fierceness, and clucked to her young ones not to be afraid. A

pigeon, alone on a low branch, allowed Pearl to come beneath, and

uttered a sound as much of greeting as alarm. A squirrel, from the

lofty depths of his domestic tree, chattered either in anger or

merriment,—for a squirrel is such a choleric and humorous little

personage, that it is hard to distinguish between his moods,—so he

chattered at the child, and flung down a nut upon her head. It was a

last year’s nut, and already gnawed by his sharp tooth. A fox,

startled from his sleep by her light footstep on the leaves, looked

inquisitively at Pearl, as doubting whether it were better to steal

off, or renew his nap on the same spot. A wolf, it is said,—but here

the tale has surely lapsed into the improbable,—came up, and smelt of

Pearl’s robe, and offered his savage head to be patted by her hand.

The truth seems to be, however, that the mother-forest, and these wild

things which it nourished, all recognized a kindred wildness in the

human child.

And she was gentler here than in the grassy-margined streets of the

settlement, or in her mother’s cottage. The flowers appeared to know

it; and one and another whispered as she passed, “Adorn thyself with

me, thou beautiful child, adorn thyself with me!”—and, to please

them, Pearl gathered the violets, and anemones, and columbines, and

some twigs of the freshest green, which the old trees held down before

her eyes. With these she decorated her hair, and her young waist, and

became a nymph-child, or an infant dryad, or whatever else was in

closest sympathy with the antique wood. In such guise had Pearl

adorned herself, when she heard her mother’s voice, and came slowly

back.

Slowly; for she saw the clergyman.

 [Illustration]

 XIX.

 THE CHILD AT THE BROOK-SIDE.

“Thou wilt love her dearly,” repeated Hester Prynne, as she and the

minister sat watching little Pearl. “Dost thou not think her

beautiful? And see with what natural skill she has made those simple

flowers adorn her! Had she gathered pearls, and diamonds, and rubies,

in the wood, they could not have become her better. She is a splendid

child! But I know whose brow she has!”

“Dost thou know, Hester,” said Arthur Dimmesdale, with an unquiet

smile, “that this dear child, tripping about always at thy side, hath

caused me many an alarm? Methought—O Hester, what a thought is that,

and how terrible to dread it!—that my own features were partly

repeated in her face, and so strikingly that the world might see them!

But she is mostly thine!”

“No, no! Not mostly!” answered the mother, with a tender smile. “A

little longer, and thou needest not to be afraid to trace whose child

she is. But how strangely beautiful she looks, with those

wild-flowers in her hair! It is as if one of the fairies, whom we left

in our dear old England, had decked her out to meet us.”

It was with a feeling which neither of them had ever before

experienced, that they sat and watched Pearl’s slow advance. In her