and customs and manners. There were even such books of reference as the

London Directory, the “Red” and “Blue” books, Whitaker’s Almanac, the

Army and Navy Lists, and--it somehow gladdened my heart to see it--the

Law List.

Whilst I was looking at the books, the door opened, and the Count

entered. He saluted me in a hearty way, and hoped that I had had a good

night’s rest. Then he went on:--

“I am glad you found your way in here, for I am sure there is much that

will interest you. These companions”--and he laid his hand on some of

the books--“have been good friends to me, and for some years past, ever

since I had the idea of going to London, have given me many, many hours

of pleasure. Through them I have come to know your great England; and to

know her is to love her. I long to go through the crowded streets of

your mighty London, to be in the midst of the whirl and rush of

humanity, to share its life, its change, its death, and all that makes

it what it is. But alas! as yet I only know your tongue through books.

To you, my friend, I look that I know it to speak.”

“But, Count,” I said, “you know and speak English thoroughly!” He bowed

gravely.

“I thank you, my friend, for your all too-flattering estimate, but yet I

fear that I am but a little way on the road I would travel. True, I know

the grammar and the words, but yet I know not how to speak them.”

“Indeed,” I said, “you speak excellently.”

“Not so,” he answered. “Well, I know that, did I move and speak in your

London, none there are who would not know me for a stranger. That is not

enough for me. Here I am noble; I am _boyar_; the common people know me,

and I am master. But a stranger in a strange land, he is no one; men

know him not--and to know not is to care not for. I am content if I am

like the rest, so that no man stops if he see me, or pause in his

speaking if he hear my words, ‘Ha, ha! a stranger!’ I have been so long

master that I would be master still--or at least that none other should

be master of me. You come to me not alone as agent of my friend Peter

Hawkins, of Exeter, to tell me all about my new estate in London. You

shall, I trust, rest here with me awhile, so that by our talking I may

learn the English intonation; and I would that you tell me when I make

error, even of the smallest, in my speaking. I am sorry that I had to be

away so long to-day; but you will, I know, forgive one who has so many

important affairs in hand.”

Of course I said all I could about being willing, and asked if I might

come into that room when I chose. He answered: “Yes, certainly,” and

added:--

“You may go anywhere you wish in the castle, except where the doors are

locked, where of course you will not wish to go. There is reason that

all things are as they are, and did you see with my eyes and know with

my knowledge, you would perhaps better understand.” I said I was sure of

this, and then he went on:--

“We are in Transylvania; and Transylvania is not England. Our ways are

not your ways, and there shall be to you many strange things. Nay, from

what you have told me of your experiences already, you know something of

what strange things there may be.”

This led to much conversation; and as it was evident that he wanted to

talk, if only for talking’s sake, I asked him many questions regarding

things that had already happened to me or come within my notice.

Sometimes he sheered off the subject, or turned the conversation by

pretending not to understand; but generally he answered all I asked most

frankly. Then as time went on, and I had got somewhat bolder, I asked

him of some of the strange things of the preceding night, as, for

instance, why the coachman went to the places where he had seen the blue

flames. He then explained to me that it was commonly believed that on a

certain night of the year--last night, in fact, when all evil spirits

are supposed to have unchecked sway--a blue flame is seen over any place

where treasure has been concealed. “That treasure has been hidden,” he

went on, “in the region through which you came last night, there can be

but little doubt; for it was the ground fought over for centuries by the

Wallachian, the Saxon, and the Turk. Why, there is hardly a foot of soil

in all this region that has not been enriched by the blood of men,

patriots or invaders. In old days there were stirring times, when the

Austrian and the Hungarian came up in hordes, and the patriots went out

to meet them--men and women, the aged and the children too--and waited

their coming on the rocks above the passes, that they might sweep

destruction on them with their artificial avalanches. When the invader