“Good Master Dimmesdale,” said he, “the responsibility of this woman’s

soul lies greatly with you. It behooves you, therefore, to exhort her

to repentance, and to confession, as a proof and consequence thereof.”

The directness of this appeal drew the eyes of the whole crowd upon

the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale; a young clergyman, who had come from one

of the great English universities, bringing all the learning of the

age into our wild forest-land. His eloquence and religious fervor had

already given the earnest of high eminence in his profession. He was a

person of very striking aspect, with a white, lofty, and impending

brow, large brown, melancholy eyes, and a mouth which, unless when he

forcibly compressed it, was apt to be tremulous, expressing both

nervous sensibility and a vast power of self-restraint.

Notwithstanding his high native gifts and scholar-like attainments,

there was an air about this young minister,—an apprehensive, a

startled, a half-frightened look,—as of a being who felt himself

quite astray and at a loss in the pathway of human existence, and

could only be at ease in some seclusion of his own. Therefore, so far

as his duties would permit, he trod in the shadowy by-paths, and thus

kept himself simple and childlike; coming forth, when occasion was,

with a freshness, and fragrance, and dewy purity of thought, which, as

many people said, affected them like the speech of an angel.

Such was the young man whom the Reverend Mr. Wilson and the Governor

had introduced so openly to the public notice, bidding him speak, in

the hearing of all men, to that mystery of a woman’s soul, so sacred

even in its pollution. The trying nature of his position drove the

blood from his cheek, and made his lips tremulous.

“Speak to the woman, my brother,” said Mr. Wilson. “It is of moment to

her soul, and therefore, as the worshipful Governor says, momentous to

thine own, in whose charge hers is. Exhort her to confess the truth!”

The Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale bent his head, in silent prayer, as it

seemed, and then came forward.

“Hester Prynne,” said he, leaning over the balcony and looking down

steadfastly into her eyes, “thou hearest what this good man says, and

seest the accountability under which I labor. If thou feelest it to be

for thy soul’s peace, and that thy earthly punishment will thereby be

made more effectual to salvation, I charge thee to speak out the name

of thy fellow-sinner and fellow-sufferer! Be not silent from any

mistaken pity and tenderness for him; for, believe me, Hester, though

he were to step down from a high place, and stand there beside thee,

on thy pedestal of shame, yet better were it so than to hide a guilty

heart through life. What can thy silence do for him, except it tempt

him—yea, compel him, as it were—to add hypocrisy to sin? Heaven hath

granted thee an open ignominy, that thereby thou mayest work out an

open triumph over the evil within thee, and the sorrow without. Take

heed how thou deniest to him—who, perchance, hath not the courage to

grasp it for himself—the bitter, but wholesome, cup that is now

presented to thy lips!”

The young pastor’s voice was tremulously sweet, rich, deep, and

broken. The feeling that it so evidently manifested, rather than the

direct purport of the words, caused it to vibrate within all hearts,

and brought the listeners into one accord of sympathy. Even the poor

baby, at Hester’s bosom, was affected by the same influence; for it

directed its hitherto vacant gaze towards Mr. Dimmesdale, and held up

its little arms, with a half-pleased, half-plaintive murmur. So

powerful seemed the minister’s appeal, that the people could not

believe but that Hester Prynne would speak out the guilty name; or

else that the guilty one himself, in whatever high or lowly place he

stood, would be drawn forth by an inward and inevitable necessity, and

compelled to ascend to the scaffold.

Hester shook her head.

“Woman, transgress not beyond the limits of Heaven’s mercy!” cried the

Reverend Mr. Wilson, more harshly than before. “That little babe hath

been gifted with a voice, to second and confirm the counsel which thou

hast heard. Speak out the name! That, and thy repentance, may avail to

take the scarlet letter off thy breast.”

“Never!” replied Hester Prynne, looking, not at Mr. Wilson, but into

the deep and troubled eyes of the younger clergyman. “It is too deeply

branded. Ye cannot take it off. And would that I might endure his

agony, as well as mine!”

“Speak, woman!” said another voice, coldly and sternly, proceeding

from the crowd about the scaffold. “Speak; and give your child a

father!”

“I will not speak!” answered Hester, turning pale as death, but

responding to this voice, which she too surely recognized. “And my

child must seek a heavenly Father; she shall never know an earthly

one!”