“My young sir, I do not ask so much as that--not the last!”

“What shall I do?” There was fire in his eyes, and his open nostril

quivered with intent. Van Helsing slapped him on the shoulder. “Come!”

he said. “You are a man, and it is a man we want. You are better than

me, better than my friend John.” Arthur looked bewildered, and the

Professor went on by explaining in a kindly way:--

“Young miss is bad, very bad. She wants blood, and blood she must have

or die. My friend John and I have consulted; and we are about to perform

what we call transfusion of blood--to transfer from full veins of one to

the empty veins which pine for him. John was to give his blood, as he is

the more young and strong than me”--here Arthur took my hand and wrung

it hard in silence--“but, now you are here, you are more good than us,

old or young, who toil much in the world of thought. Our nerves are not

so calm and our blood not so bright than yours!” Arthur turned to him

and said:--

“If you only knew how gladly I would die for her you would

understand----”

He stopped, with a sort of choke in his voice.

“Good boy!” said Van Helsing. “In the not-so-far-off you will be happy

that you have done all for her you love. Come now and be silent. You

shall kiss her once before it is done, but then you must go; and you

must leave at my sign. Say no word to Madame; you know how it is with

her! There must be no shock; any knowledge of this would be one. Come!”

We all went up to Lucy’s room. Arthur by direction remained outside.

Lucy turned her head and looked at us, but said nothing. She was not

asleep, but she was simply too weak to make the effort. Her eyes spoke

to us; that was all. Van Helsing took some things from his bag and laid

them on a little table out of sight. Then he mixed a narcotic, and

coming over to the bed, said cheerily:--

“Now, little miss, here is your medicine. Drink it off, like a good

child. See, I lift you so that to swallow is easy. Yes.” She had made

the effort with success.

It astonished me how long the drug took to act. This, in fact, marked

the extent of her weakness. The time seemed endless until sleep began to

flicker in her eyelids. At last, however, the narcotic began to manifest

its potency; and she fell into a deep sleep. When the Professor was

satisfied he called Arthur into the room, and bade him strip off his

coat. Then he added: “You may take that one little kiss whiles I bring

over the table. Friend John, help to me!” So neither of us looked whilst

he bent over her.

Van Helsing turning to me, said:

“He is so young and strong and of blood so pure that we need not

defibrinate it.”

Then with swiftness, but with absolute method, Van Helsing performed the

operation. As the transfusion went on something like life seemed to come

back to poor Lucy’s cheeks, and through Arthur’s growing pallor the joy

of his face seemed absolutely to shine. After a bit I began to grow

anxious, for the loss of blood was telling on Arthur, strong man as he

was. It gave me an idea of what a terrible strain Lucy’s system must

have undergone that what weakened Arthur only partially restored her.

But the Professor’s face was set, and he stood watch in hand and with

his eyes fixed now on the patient and now on Arthur. I could hear my own

heart beat. Presently he said in a soft voice: “Do not stir an instant.

It is enough. You attend him; I will look to her.” When all was over I

could see how much Arthur was weakened. I dressed the wound and took his

arm to bring him away, when Van Helsing spoke without turning round--the

man seems to have eyes in the back of his head:--

“The brave lover, I think, deserve another kiss, which he shall have

presently.” And as he had now finished his operation, he adjusted the

pillow to the patient’s head. As he did so the narrow black velvet band

which she seems always to wear round her throat, buckled with an old

diamond buckle which her lover had given her, was dragged a little up,