her resigned. As for Elizabeth herself, this invitation was so far from

exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother and Lydia, that she

considered it as the death-warrant of all possibility of common sense

for the latter; and detestable as such a step must make her, were it

known, she could not help secretly advising her father not to let her

go. She represented to him all the improprieties of Lydia’s general

behaviour, the little advantage she could derive from the friendship of

such a woman as Mrs. Forster, and the probability of her being yet more

imprudent with such a companion at Brighton, where the temptations must

be greater than at home. He heard her attentively, and then said,--

“Lydia will never be easy till she has exposed herself in some public

place or other, and we can never expect her to do it with so little

expense or inconvenience to her family as under the present

circumstances.”

“If you were aware,” said Elizabeth, “of the very great disadvantage to

us all, which must arise from the public notice of Lydia’s unguarded and

imprudent manner, nay, which has already arisen from it, I am sure you

would judge differently in the affair.”

“Already arisen!” repeated Mr. Bennet. “What! has she frightened away

some of your lovers? Poor little Lizzy! But do not be cast down. Such

squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity

are not worth a regret. Come, let me see the list of the pitiful fellows

who have been kept aloof by Lydia’s folly.”

“Indeed, you are mistaken. I have no such injuries to resent. It is not

of peculiar, but of general evils, which I am now complaining. Our

importance, our respectability in the world, must be affected by the

wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark

Lydia’s character. Excuse me,--for I must speak plainly. If you, my dear

father, will not take the trouble of checking her exuberant spirits, and

of teaching her that her present pursuits are not to be the business of

her life, she will soon be beyond the reach of amendment. Her character

will be fixed; and she will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt

that ever made herself and her family ridiculous;--a flirt, too, in the

worst and meanest degree of flirtation; without any attraction beyond

youth and a tolerable person; and, from the ignorance and emptiness of

her mind, wholly unable to ward off any portion of that universal

contempt which her rage for admiration will excite. In this danger Kitty

is also comprehended. She will follow wherever Lydia leads. Vain,

ignorant, idle, and absolutely uncontrolled! Oh, my dear father, can you

suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever

they are known, and that their sisters will not be often involved in the

disgrace?”

Mr. Bennet saw that her whole heart was in the subject; and,

affectionately taking her hand, said, in reply,--

“Do not make yourself uneasy, my love. Wherever you and Jane are known,

you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less

advantage for having a couple of--or I may say, three--very silly

sisters. We shall have no peace at Longbourn if Lydia does not go to

Brighton. Let her go, then. Colonel Forster is a sensible man, and will

keep her out of any real mischief; and she is luckily too poor to be an

object of prey to anybody. At Brighton she will be of less importance

even as a common flirt than she has been here. The officers will find

women better worth their notice. Let us hope, therefore, that her being

there may teach her her own insignificance. At any rate, she cannot grow

many degrees worse, without authorizing us to lock her up for the rest

of her life.”

With this answer Elizabeth was forced to be content; but her own opinion

continued the same, and she left him disappointed and sorry. It was not

in her nature, however, to increase her vexations by dwelling on them.

She was confident of having performed her duty; and to fret over

unavoidable evils, or augment them by anxiety, was no part of her

disposition.

Had Lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference with her

father, their indignation would hardly have found expression in their

united volubility. In Lydia’s imagination, a visit to Brighton comprised

every possibility of earthly happiness. She saw, with the creative eye

of fancy, the streets of that gay bathing-place covered with officers.

She saw herself the object of attention to tens and to scores of them at