and thrust last night’s “Westminster Gazette” into my hand.

“What do you think of that?” he asked as he stood back and folded his

arms.

I looked over the paper, for I really did not know what he meant; but he

took it from me and pointed out a paragraph about children being decoyed

away at Hampstead. It did not convey much to me, until I reached a

passage where it described small punctured wounds on their throats. An

idea struck me, and I looked up. “Well?” he said.

“It is like poor Lucy’s.”

“And what do you make of it?”

“Simply that there is some cause in common. Whatever it was that injured

her has injured them.” I did not quite understand his answer:--

“That is true indirectly, but not directly.”

“How do you mean, Professor?” I asked. I was a little inclined to take

his seriousness lightly--for, after all, four days of rest and freedom

from burning, harrowing anxiety does help to restore one’s spirits--but

when I saw his face, it sobered me. Never, even in the midst of our

despair about poor Lucy, had he looked more stern.

“Tell me!” I said. “I can hazard no opinion. I do not know what to

think, and I have no data on which to found a conjecture.”

“Do you mean to tell me, friend John, that you have no suspicion as to

what poor Lucy died of; not after all the hints given, not only by

events, but by me?”

“Of nervous prostration following on great loss or waste of blood.”

“And how the blood lost or waste?” I shook my head. He stepped over and

sat down beside me, and went on:--

“You are clever man, friend John; you reason well, and your wit is bold;

but you are too prejudiced. You do not let your eyes see nor your ears

hear, and that which is outside your daily life is not of account to

you. Do you not think that there are things which you cannot understand,

and yet which are; that some people see things that others cannot? But

there are things old and new which must not be contemplate by men’s

eyes, because they know--or think they know--some things which other men

have told them. Ah, it is the fault of our science that it wants to

explain all; and if it explain not, then it says there is nothing to

explain. But yet we see around us every day the growth of new beliefs,

which think themselves new; and which are yet but the old, which pretend

to be young--like the fine ladies at the opera. I suppose now you do not

believe in corporeal transference. No? Nor in materialisation. No? Nor

in astral bodies. No? Nor in the reading of thought. No? Nor in

hypnotism----”

“Yes,” I said. “Charcot has proved that pretty well.” He smiled as he

went on: “Then you are satisfied as to it. Yes? And of course then you

understand how it act, and can follow the mind of the great

Charcot--alas that he is no more!--into the very soul of the patient

that he influence. No? Then, friend John, am I to take it that you

simply accept fact, and are satisfied to let from premise to conclusion

be a blank? No? Then tell me--for I am student of the brain--how you

accept the hypnotism and reject the thought reading. Let me tell you, my

friend, that there are things done to-day in electrical science which

would have been deemed unholy by the very men who discovered

electricity--who would themselves not so long before have been burned

as wizards. There are always mysteries in life. Why was it that

Methuselah lived nine hundred years, and ‘Old Parr’ one hundred and

sixty-nine, and yet that poor Lucy, with four men’s blood in her poor

veins, could not live even one day? For, had she live one more day, we

could have save her. Do you know all the mystery of life and death? Do

you know the altogether of comparative anatomy and can say wherefore the

qualities of brutes are in some men, and not in others? Can you tell me

why, when other spiders die small and soon, that one great spider lived

for centuries in the tower of the old Spanish church and grew and grew,