to the folks at home. They'll be getting worried."

"It doesn't seem as if there was a way out of here without using an

airship," remarked Jackson.

But he and Tom finally reached the seldom-used road which ran along the

field that contained the lonely shack, and, following this, they

reached a farmhouse about a mile farther on. Greatly to their relief,

there was a telephone in the place. True it was only a party line, set

up by some neighboring farmers for their own private use, but one of

the subscribers, to whose home the private line ran, had a long

distance instrument, and after a talk with him, this man promised Tom

to call up Mr. Swift and acquaint him with the fact that his son and

Jackson were all right, and would be home later.

"And now," said Tom, after thanking their temporary host, a farmer

named Bloise, "can you tell us anything about an old cabin that stands

back there?" and he indicated the location of the mysterious shack.

"Well, yes, I can tell you a little about it, but not very much," said

Mr. Bloise. "It was built, some years ago, by a rich New Yorker, who

bought up a lot of land around here for a game preserve. But it didn't

pan out. This cabin was only the start of what he was going to call a

'hunting lodge,' I believe it was. There was to be a big building on

the same order, but it never was built.

"Some say the fellow lost all his money in Wall Street, and others say

the state wouldn't let him make a game preserve here. However it was,

the thing petered out, and the old shack hasn't been used since."

"Oh, yes, it has!" exclaimed Tom. "We just came from there, and there

are signs which show some one has been sleeping there and eating there."

"There has!" exclaimed the farmer. "Well, I didn't know that."

"I did," said his son, a young man about Tom's age. "I meant to speak

of it the other day. I saw an automobile turn into the old road that

the men used when they built the shack. I thought it was kind of queer

to see a touring car turn in there, and I meant to speak of it, but I

forgot. Yes, some one has been at the old cabin lately."

"Do you know who they are?" asked Tom eagerly. "We are looking for a

Mr. Nestor, who disappeared mysteriously about two weeks ago, and I

just found his wallet there in the shack!"

"You did!" exclaimed Mr. Bloise. "That's queer! You relatives of this

Mr. Nestor?" he asked.

"Not exactly," Tom answered. "Just very close friends."

"Well, it's too bad about his being missing in that way," went on the

farmer. "I read about it in the paper, but I never suspected he was

around here."

"Oh, we're not sure that he was," said Tom quickly. "Finding his wallet

doesn't prove that," and he told the story of his own and Jackson's

appearance on the scene, to the no small wonder of the farmer and his

family. Tom said nothing about the finding of the files, nor the

evidence he deduced from them. That was another matter to be taken up

later.

"Who were in the auto you saw?" asked Tom of the farmer's son. "Was

Mr. Nestor in the car?"

"I couldn't be sure of that. There were two men in the machine, and

they were both strangers to me. They were talking together, pretty

earnestly, it seemed to me."

"One did not appear as if he was being taken away against his will, did

he?" asked Tom.

"No, I can't say that he did," was the answers "They looked to me, and

acted like, business men looking over land, or something like that.

They just turned in on the road that leads to the old hunting cabin, as

we call it around here, and didn't pay any attention to me. Then I

forgot all about them."

"Neither of them could have been Mr. Nestor," decided Tom. "At least it

doesn't seem as if he'd talk at all companionably to a man who had