selfishness, secrecy, and purpose. I wish I could get at what is the

object of the latter. He seems to have some settled scheme of his own,

but what it is I do not yet know. His redeeming quality is a love of

animals, though, indeed, he has such curious turns in it that I

sometimes imagine he is only abnormally cruel. His pets are of odd

sorts. Just now his hobby is catching flies. He has at present such a

quantity that I have had myself to expostulate. To my astonishment, he

did not break out into a fury, as I expected, but took the matter in

simple seriousness. He thought for a moment, and then said: “May I have

three days? I shall clear them away.” Of course, I said that would do. I

must watch him.

 * * * * *

_18 June._--He has turned his mind now to spiders, and has got several

very big fellows in a box. He keeps feeding them with his flies, and

the number of the latter is becoming sensibly diminished, although he

has used half his food in attracting more flies from outside to his

room.

 * * * * *

_1 July._--His spiders are now becoming as great a nuisance as his

flies, and to-day I told him that he must get rid of them. He looked

very sad at this, so I said that he must clear out some of them, at all

events. He cheerfully acquiesced in this, and I gave him the same time

as before for reduction. He disgusted me much while with him, for when a

horrid blow-fly, bloated with some carrion food, buzzed into the room,

he caught it, held it exultantly for a few moments between his finger

and thumb, and, before I knew what he was going to do, put it in his

mouth and ate it. I scolded him for it, but he argued quietly that it

was very good and very wholesome; that it was life, strong life, and

gave life to him. This gave me an idea, or the rudiment of one. I must

watch how he gets rid of his spiders. He has evidently some deep problem

in his mind, for he keeps a little note-book in which he is always

jotting down something. Whole pages of it are filled with masses of

figures, generally single numbers added up in batches, and then the

totals added in batches again, as though he were “focussing” some

account, as the auditors put it.

 * * * * *

_8 July._--There is a method in his madness, and the rudimentary idea in

my mind is growing. It will be a whole idea soon, and then, oh,

unconscious cerebration! you will have to give the wall to your

conscious brother. I kept away from my friend for a few days, so that I

might notice if there were any change. Things remain as they were except

that he has parted with some of his pets and got a new one. He has

managed to get a sparrow, and has already partially tamed it. His means

of taming is simple, for already the spiders have diminished. Those that

do remain, however, are well fed, for he still brings in the flies by

tempting them with his food.

 * * * * *

_19 July._--We are progressing. My friend has now a whole colony of

sparrows, and his flies and spiders are almost obliterated. When I came

in he ran to me and said he wanted to ask me a great favour--a very,

very great favour; and as he spoke he fawned on me like a dog. I asked

him what it was, and he said, with a sort of rapture in his voice and

bearing:--

“A kitten, a nice little, sleek playful kitten, that I can play with,

and teach, and feed--and feed--and feed!” I was not unprepared for this

request, for I had noticed how his pets went on increasing in size and

vivacity, but I did not care that his pretty family of tame sparrows

should be wiped out in the same manner as the flies and the spiders; so

I said I would see about it, and asked him if he would not rather have a

cat than a kitten. His eagerness betrayed him as he answered:--

“Oh, yes, I would like a cat! I only asked for a kitten lest you should

refuse me a cat. No one would refuse me a kitten, would they?” I shook

my head, and said that at present I feared it would not be possible, but

that I would see about it. His face fell, and I could see a warning of

danger in it, for there was a sudden fierce, sidelong look which meant