operation of transfusion of blood. I had long ago recognised the

necessity, and begun to take off my coat, but he stopped me with a

warning hand. “No!” he said. “To-day you must operate. I shall provide.

You are weakened already.” As he spoke he took off his coat and rolled

up his shirt-sleeve.

Again the operation; again the narcotic; again some return of colour to

the ashy cheeks, and the regular breathing of healthy sleep. This time I

watched whilst Van Helsing recruited himself and rested.

Presently he took an opportunity of telling Mrs. Westenra that she must

not remove anything from Lucy’s room without consulting him; that the

flowers were of medicinal value, and that the breathing of their odour

was a part of the system of cure. Then he took over the care of the case

himself, saying that he would watch this night and the next and would

send me word when to come.

After another hour Lucy waked from her sleep, fresh and bright and

seemingly not much the worse for her terrible ordeal.

What does it all mean? I am beginning to wonder if my long habit of life

amongst the insane is beginning to tell upon my own brain.

_Lucy Westenra’s Diary._

_17 September._--Four days and nights of peace. I am getting so strong

again that I hardly know myself. It is as if I had passed through some

long nightmare, and had just awakened to see the beautiful sunshine and

feel the fresh air of the morning around me. I have a dim

half-remembrance of long, anxious times of waiting and fearing; darkness

in which there was not even the pain of hope to make present distress

more poignant: and then long spells of oblivion, and the rising back to

life as a diver coming up through a great press of water. Since,

however, Dr. Van Helsing has been with me, all this bad dreaming seems

to have passed away; the noises that used to frighten me out of my

wits--the flapping against the windows, the distant voices which seemed

so close to me, the harsh sounds that came from I know not where and

commanded me to do I know not what--have all ceased. I go to bed now

without any fear of sleep. I do not even try to keep awake. I have grown

quite fond of the garlic, and a boxful arrives for me every day from

Haarlem. To-night Dr. Van Helsing is going away, as he has to be for a

day in Amsterdam. But I need not be watched; I am well enough to be left

alone. Thank God for mother’s sake, and dear Arthur’s, and for all our

friends who have been so kind! I shall not even feel the change, for

last night Dr. Van Helsing slept in his chair a lot of the time. I found

him asleep twice when I awoke; but I did not fear to go to sleep again,

although the boughs or bats or something napped almost angrily against

the window-panes.

_“The Pall Mall Gazette,” 18 September._

 THE ESCAPED WOLF.

 PERILOUS ADVENTURE OF OUR INTERVIEWER.

 _Interview with the Keeper in the Zoölogical Gardens._

After many inquiries and almost as many refusals, and perpetually using

the words “Pall Mall Gazette” as a sort of talisman, I managed to find

the keeper of the section of the Zoölogical Gardens in which the wolf

department is included. Thomas Bilder lives in one of the cottages in

the enclosure behind the elephant-house, and was just sitting down to

his tea when I found him. Thomas and his wife are hospitable folk,

elderly, and without children, and if the specimen I enjoyed of their

hospitality be of the average kind, their lives must be pretty

comfortable. The keeper would not enter on what he called “business”

until the supper was over, and we were all satisfied. Then when the

table was cleared, and he had lit his pipe, he said:--

“Now, sir, you can go on and arsk me what you want. You’ll excoose me

refoosin’ to talk of perfeshunal subjects afore meals. I gives the

wolves and the jackals and the hyenas in all our section their tea afore

I begins to arsk them questions.”

“How do you mean, ask them questions?” I queried, wishful to get him

into a talkative humour.

“’Ittin’ of them over the ’ead with a pole is one way; scratchin’ of

their hears is another, when gents as is flush wants a bit of a show-orf

to their gals. I don’t so much mind the fust--the ’ittin’ with a pole

afore I chucks in their dinner; but I waits till they’ve ’ad their

sherry and kawffee, so to speak, afore I tries on with the

ear-scratchin’. Mind you,” he added philosophically, “there’s a deal of

the same nature in us as in them theer animiles. Here’s you a-comin’ and

arskin’ of me questions about my business, and I that grumpy-like that