and the severest acts of public discipline were alike made venerable

and awful. Meagre, indeed, and cold was the sympathy that a

transgressor might look for, from such bystanders, at the scaffold. On

the other hand, a penalty, which, in our days, would infer a degree of

mocking infamy and ridicule, might then be invested with almost as

stern a dignity as the punishment of death itself.

It was a circumstance to be noted, on the summer morning when our

story begins its course, that the women, of whom there were several in

the crowd, appeared to take a peculiar interest in whatever penal

infliction might be expected to ensue. The age had not so much

refinement, that any sense of impropriety restrained the wearers of

petticoat and farthingale from stepping forth into the public ways,

and wedging their not unsubstantial persons, if occasion were, into

the throng nearest to the scaffold at an execution. Morally, as well

as materially, there was a coarser fibre in those wives and maidens of

old English birth and breeding, than in their fair descendants,

separated from them by a series of six or seven generations; for,

throughout that chain of ancestry, every successive mother has

transmitted to her child a fainter bloom, a more delicate and briefer

beauty, and a slighter physical frame, if not a character of less

force and solidity, than her own. The women who were now standing

about the prison-door stood within less than half a century of the

period when the man-like Elizabeth had been the not altogether

unsuitable representative of the sex. They were her countrywomen; and

the beef and ale of their native land, with a moral diet not a whit

more refined, entered largely into their composition. The bright

morning sun, therefore, shone on broad shoulders and well-developed

busts, and on round and ruddy cheeks, that had ripened in the far-off

island, and had hardly yet grown paler or thinner in the atmosphere of

New England. There was, moreover, a boldness and rotundity of speech

among these matrons, as most of them seemed to be, that would startle

us at the present day, whether in respect to its purport or its volume

of tone.

“Goodwives,” said a hard-featured dame of fifty, “I’ll tell ye a piece

of my mind. It would be greatly for the public behoof, if we women,

being of mature age and church-members in good repute, should have the

handling of such malefactresses as this Hester Prynne. What think ye,

gossips? If the hussy stood up for judgment before us five, that are

now here in a knot together, would she come off with such a sentence

as the worshipful magistrates have awarded? Marry, I trow not!”

“People say,” said another, “that the Reverend Master Dimmesdale, her

godly pastor, takes it very grievously to heart that such a scandal

should have come upon his congregation.”

“The magistrates are God-fearing gentlemen, but merciful

overmuch,—that is a truth,” added a third autumnal matron. “At the

very least, they should have put the brand of a hot iron on Hester

Prynne’s forehead. Madam Hester would have winced at that, I warrant

me. But she,—the naughty baggage,—little will she care what they

put upon the bodice of her gown! Why, look you, she may cover it with

a brooch, or such like heathenish adornment, and so walk the streets

as brave as ever!”

“Ah, but,” interposed, more softly, a young wife, holding a child by

the hand, “let her cover the mark as she will, the pang of it will be

always in her heart.”

[Illustration: The Gossips]

“What do we talk of marks and brands, whether on the bodice of her

gown, or the flesh of her forehead?” cried another female, the ugliest

as well as the most pitiless of these self-constituted judges. “This

woman has brought shame upon us all, and ought to die. Is there not

law for it? Truly, there is, both in the Scripture and the

statute-book. Then let the magistrates, who have made it of no effect,

thank themselves if their own wives and daughters go astray!”

“Mercy on us, goodwife,” exclaimed a man in the crowd, “is there no

virtue in woman, save what springs from a wholesome fear of the

gallows? That is the hardest word yet! Hush, now, gossips! for the

lock is turning in the prison-door, and here comes Mistress Prynne

herself.”

The door of the jail being flung open from within, there appeared, in

the first place, like a black shadow emerging into sunshine, the grim

and grisly presence of the town-beadle, with a sword by his side, and

his staff of office in his hand. This personage prefigured and

represented in his aspect the whole dismal severity of the Puritanic

code of law, which it was his business to administer in its final and

closest application to the offender. Stretching forth the official