with dark, glistening curls around her head, and an elf-smile in her

eyes, the image of a little maid, whom Pearl, having no other

playmate, invited to take her hand, and run a race with her. But the

visionary little maid, on her part, beckoned likewise, as if to

say,—“This is a better place! Come thou into the pool!” And Pearl,

stepping in, mid-leg deep, beheld her own white feet at the bottom;

while, out of a still lower depth, came the gleam of a kind of

fragmentary smile, floating to and fro in the agitated water.

Meanwhile, her mother had accosted the physician.

“I would speak a word with you,” said she,—“a word that concerns us

much.”

“Aha! and is it Mistress Hester that has a word for old Roger

Chillingworth?” answered he, raising himself from his stooping

posture. “With all my heart! Why, Mistress, I hear good tidings of you

on all hands! No longer ago than yester-eve, a magistrate, a wise and

godly man, was discoursing of your affairs, Mistress Hester, and

whispered me that there had been question concerning you in the

council. It was debated whether or no, with safety to the common weal,

yonder scarlet letter might be taken off your bosom. On my life,

Hester, I made my entreaty to the worshipful magistrate that it might

be done forthwith!”

“It lies not in the pleasure of the magistrates to take off this

badge,” calmly replied Hester. “Were I worthy to be quit of it, it

would fall away of its own nature, or be transformed into something

that should speak a different purport.”

“Nay, then, wear it, if it suit you better,” rejoined he. “A woman

must needs follow her own fancy, touching the adornment of her person.

The letter is gayly embroidered, and shows right bravely on your

bosom!”

All this while, Hester had been looking steadily at the old man, and

was shocked, as well as wonder-smitten, to discern what a change had

been wrought upon him within the past seven years. It was not so much

that he had grown older; for though the traces of advancing life were

visible, he bore his age well, and seemed to retain a wiry vigor and

alertness. But the former aspect of an intellectual and studious man,

calm and quiet, which was what she best remembered in him, had

altogether vanished, and been succeeded by an eager, searching,

almost fierce, yet carefully guarded look. It seemed to be his wish

and purpose to mask this expression with a smile; but the latter

played him false, and flickered over his visage so derisively, that

the spectator could see his blackness all the better for it. Ever and

anon, too, there came a glare of red light out of his eyes; as if the

old man’s soul were on fire, and kept on smouldering duskily within

his breast, until, by some casual puff of passion, it was blown into a

momentary flame. This he repressed, as speedily as possible, and

strove to look as if nothing of the kind had happened.

In a word, old Roger Chillingworth was a striking evidence of man’s

faculty of transforming himself into a devil, if he will only, for a

reasonable space of time, undertake a devil’s office. This unhappy

person had effected such a transformation, by devoting himself, for

seven years, to the constant analysis of a heart full of torture, and

deriving his enjoyment thence, and adding fuel to those fiery tortures

which he analyzed and gloated over.

The scarlet letter burned on Hester Prynne’s bosom. Here was another

ruin, the responsibility of which came partly home to her.

“What see you in my face,” asked the physician, “that you look at it

so earnestly?”

“Something that would make me weep, if there were any tears bitter

enough for it,” answered she. “But let it pass! It is of yonder

miserable man that I would speak.”

“And what of him?” cried Roger Chillingworth, eagerly, as if he loved

the topic, and were glad of an opportunity to discuss it with the only

person of whom he could make a confidant. “Not to hide the truth,

Mistress Hester, my thoughts happen just now to be busy with the

gentleman. So speak freely; and I will make answer.”

“When we last spake together,” said Hester, “now seven years ago, it

was your pleasure to extort a promise of secrecy, as touching the

former relation betwixt yourself and me. As the life and good fame of

yonder man were in your hands, there seemed no choice to me, save to

be silent, in accordance with your behest. Yet it was not without

heavy misgivings that I thus bound myself; for, having cast off all

duty towards other human beings, there remained a duty towards him;

and something whispered me that I was betraying it, in pledging myself

to keep your counsel. Since that day, no man is so near to him as you.