They decided the best way to make use of that day was for relaxation

and to go for a walk; not only had they earned a break from work but

they were in serious need of it. So they sat at the table and wrote

three letters of excusal, Mr. Samsa to his employers, Mrs. Samsa to her

contractor and Grete to her principal. The cleaner came in while they

were writing to tell them she was going, she’d finished her work for

that morning. The three of them at first just nodded without looking up

from what they were writing, and it was only when the cleaner still did

not seem to want to leave that they looked up in irritation. “Well?”,

asked Mr. Samsa. The charwoman stood in the doorway with a smile on her

face as if she had some tremendous good news to report, but would only

do it if she was clearly asked to. The almost vertical little ostrich

feather on her hat, which had been a source of irritation to Mr. Samsa

all the time she had been working for them, swayed gently in all

directions. “What is it you want then?”, asked Mrs. Samsa, whom the

cleaner had the most respect for. “Yes”, she answered, and broke into a

friendly laugh that made her unable to speak straight away, “well then,

that thing in there, you needn’t worry about how you’re going to get

rid of it. That’s all been sorted out.” Mrs. Samsa and Grete bent down

over their letters as if intent on continuing with what they were

writing; Mr. Samsa saw that the cleaner wanted to start describing

everything in detail but, with outstretched hand, he made it quite

clear that she was not to. So, as she was prevented from telling them

all about it, she suddenly remembered what a hurry she was in and,

clearly peeved, called out “Cheerio then, everyone”, turned round

sharply and left, slamming the door terribly as she went.

“Tonight she gets sacked”, said Mr. Samsa, but he received no reply

from either his wife or his daughter as the charwoman seemed to have

destroyed the peace they had only just gained. They got up and went

over to the window where they remained with their arms around each

other. Mr. Samsa twisted round in his chair to look at them and sat

there watching for a while. Then he called out: “Come here, then. Let’s

forget about all that old stuff, shall we. Come and give me a bit of

attention”. The two women immediately did as he said, hurrying over to

him where they kissed him and hugged him and then they quickly finished

their letters.

After that, the three of them left the flat together, which was

something they had not done for months, and took the tram out to the

open country outside the town. They had the tram, filled with warm

sunshine, all to themselves. Leant back comfortably on their seats,

they discussed their prospects and found that on closer examination

they were not at all bad—until then they had never asked each other

about their work but all three had jobs which were very good and held

particularly good promise for the future. The greatest improvement for

the time being, of course, would be achieved quite easily by moving

house; what they needed now was a flat that was smaller and cheaper

than the current one which had been chosen by Gregor, one that was in a

better location and, most of all, more practical. All the time, Grete

was becoming livelier. With all the worry they had been having of late

her cheeks had become pale, but, while they were talking, Mr. and Mrs.

Samsa were struck, almost simultaneously, with the thought of how their

daughter was blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady.

They became quieter. Just from each other’s glance and almost without

knowing it they agreed that it would soon be time to find a good man

for her. And, as if in confirmation of their new dreams and good

intentions, as soon as they reached their destination Grete was the

first to get up and stretch out her young body.