to strike what seemed to be a cow path, or perhaps what had been a road

into the wood lot in the early days.

As he tramped along it, followed by Jackson, the young inventor

suddenly stopped, as he came to a sandy place, and, stooping over,

looked intently at some queer marks in the soil.

"What is it?" asked the mechanician.

"Looks like the marks of an automobile," said Tom slowly. "And I was

just trying to remember where I'd seen marks like these before."

CHAPTER XXI

THE DESERTED CABIN

For several seconds the young inventor remained bending over the queer

marks in that little sandy path of the lonely field in the midst of the

silent woods. Jackson watched him curiously, and then Tom straightened

up, exclaiming as he did so:

"I have it! Now I know where it was! I saw marks like these the night

Mr. Nestor disappeared. Mr. Damon and I noticed the marks in the dust

on the road the time we made the forced landing the first night we

tried out the silent motor. That's it! They are the same marks! I'm

sure of it!"

"I wouldn't go so far as to say that," said Jackson slowly. He was more

deliberate than Tom Swift, a fact for which the young inventor was

often glad, as it saved him from impulsive mistakes.

"This may not be the same auto," went on the mechanician. "I'll admit I

never saw square tire marks like those before. Most of the usual ones

are circular, diamond-shape or oblong. Some tire manufacturer must have

tried a new stunt. But as for saying these marks were made by the same

machine you saw evidences of the night Mr. Nestor disappeared, why,

that's going a little too far, Tom."

"Yes, I suppose it is," admitted the young inventor. "But it's a clew

worth following. Maybe Mr. Nestor has been brought to some lonely place

like this, and is being held."

"Why would any one want to do that?" asked Jackson. "He had no enemies."

"Well, perhaps those who ran him down and injured him are afraid to let

him go for fear he will prosecute them and ask for heavy damages,"

suggested Tom. "They may be holding him a captive until he gets well,

and aim on treating him so nicely that he won't bring suit."

"That's a pretty far-fetched theory," said the mechanician as he

carefully looked at the tracks. "But of course it may be true. Anyhow,

these tire marks are rather recent, I should say, and they are made by

a new tire. Do you think we can follow them?"

"I'm going to try!" declared Tom. "The only trouble is we can't tell

whether it was going or coming--that is we don't know which way to go."

"That's so," agreed his companion. "And so the only thing to do is to

travel a bit both ways. The path, or road, or whatever you call it, is

plainly enough marked here, though you can't always pick out the tire

marks. They show only on bare ground. The grass doesn't leave any

tracks that we can see, though doubtless they are there.

"But as for thinking this car is the same one the marks of which you

saw on the lonely moor, the night you heard the call for help--that's

going too far, Tom Swift."

"Yes, I realize that. Of course there must be more than one car with

tires which have square protuberances. But it's worth taking a chance

on--following this clew."

"Oh, sure!" agreed Jackson.

"The only question is, then, which way to go," returned Tom.

They settled that, arbitrarily enough, by going on in the direction

they had started after leaving the stranded airship. They followed a

half-defined path, and were rewarded by getting occasional glimpses on

bare ground of the odd tire marks.

Through a devious winding way, now hidden amid a lane of trees, and

again cutting across an open space, the path led. They saw the marks

often enough to make sure they were on the right trail, and in one

place they saw several different patches of the odd marks.

They went on perhaps half a mile more, when they came to a lonely road

and saw where the car had turned from that into the wood-lot, as Tom

called the place where his craft had settled down.