upon them to repent—repent! . . . Oppressors of the poor and needy . .

. ! The wine press of God!”

Then he would suddenly revert to the matter of the food I withheld from

him, praying, begging, weeping, at last threatening. He began to raise

his voice—I prayed him not to. He perceived a hold on me—he threatened

he would shout and bring the Martians upon us. For a time that scared

me; but any concession would have shortened our chance of escape beyond

estimating. I defied him, although I felt no assurance that he might

not do this thing. But that day, at any rate, he did not. He talked

with his voice rising slowly, through the greater part of the eighth

and ninth days—threats, entreaties, mingled with a torrent of half-sane

and always frothy repentance for his vacant sham of God’s service, such

as made me pity him. Then he slept awhile, and began again with renewed

strength, so loudly that I must needs make him desist.

“Be still!” I implored.

He rose to his knees, for he had been sitting in the darkness near the

copper.

“I have been still too long,” he said, in a tone that must have reached

the pit, “and now I must bear my witness. Woe unto this unfaithful

city! Woe! Woe! Woe! Woe! Woe! To the inhabitants of the earth by

reason of the other voices of the trumpet——”

“Shut up!” I said, rising to my feet, and in a terror lest the Martians

should hear us. “For God’s sake——”

“Nay,” shouted the curate, at the top of his voice, standing likewise

and extending his arms. “Speak! The word of the Lord is upon me!”

In three strides he was at the door leading into the kitchen.

“I must bear my witness! I go! It has already been too long delayed.”

I put out my hand and felt the meat chopper hanging to the wall. In a

flash I was after him. I was fierce with fear. Before he was halfway

across the kitchen I had overtaken him. With one last touch of humanity

I turned the blade back and struck him with the butt. He went headlong

forward and lay stretched on the ground. I stumbled over him and stood

panting. He lay still.

Suddenly I heard a noise without, the run and smash of slipping

plaster, and the triangular aperture in the wall was darkened. I looked

up and saw the lower surface of a handling-machine coming slowly across

the hole. One of its gripping limbs curled amid the debris; another

limb appeared, feeling its way over the fallen beams. I stood

petrified, staring. Then I saw through a sort of glass plate near the

edge of the body the face, as we may call it, and the large dark eyes

of a Martian, peering, and then a long metallic snake of tentacle came

feeling slowly through the hole.

I turned by an effort, stumbled over the curate, and stopped at the

scullery door. The tentacle was now some way, two yards or more, in the

room, and twisting and turning, with queer sudden movements, this way

and that. For a while I stood fascinated by that slow, fitful advance.

Then, with a faint, hoarse cry, I forced myself across the scullery. I

trembled violently; I could scarcely stand upright. I opened the door

of the coal cellar, and stood there in the darkness staring at the

faintly lit doorway into the kitchen, and listening. Had the Martian

seen me? What was it doing now?

Something was moving to and fro there, very quietly; every now and then

it tapped against the wall, or started on its movements with a faint

metallic ringing, like the movements of keys on a split-ring. Then a

heavy body—I knew too well what—was dragged across the floor of the