“Good God! what is the matter?” cried he, with more feeling than

politeness; then recollecting himself, “I will not detain you a minute;

but let me, or let the servant, go after Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner. You are

not well enough; you cannot go yourself.”

Elizabeth hesitated; but her knees trembled under her, and she felt how

little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them. Calling back

the servant, therefore, she commissioned him, though in so breathless an

accent as made her almost unintelligible, to fetch his master and

mistress home instantly.

On his quitting the room, she sat down, unable to support herself, and

looking so miserably ill, that it was impossible for Darcy to leave her,

or to refrain from saying, in a tone of gentleness and commiseration,

“Let me call your maid. Is there nothing you could take to give you

present relief? A glass of wine; shall I get you one? You are very ill.”

“No, I thank you,” she replied, endeavouring to recover herself. “There

is nothing the matter with me. I am quite well, I am only distressed by

some dreadful news which I have just received from Longbourn.”

She burst into tears as she alluded to it, and for a few minutes could

not speak another word. Darcy, in wretched suspense, could only say

something indistinctly of his

[Illustration:

 “I have not an instant to lose”

]

concern, and observe her in compassionate silence. At length she spoke

again. “I have just had a letter from Jane, with such dreadful news. It

cannot be concealed from anyone. My youngest sister has left all her

friends--has eloped; has thrown herself into the power of--of Mr.

Wickham. They are gone off together from Brighton. _You_ know him too

well to doubt the rest. She has no money, no connections, nothing that

can tempt him to--she is lost for ever.”

Darcy was fixed in astonishment.

“When I consider,” she added, in a yet more agitated voice, “that _I_

might have prevented it! _I_ who knew what he was. Had I but explained

some part of it only--some part of what I learnt, to my own family! Had

his character been known, this could not have happened. But it is all,

all too late now.”

“I am grieved, indeed,” cried Darcy: “grieved--shocked. But is it

certain, absolutely certain?”

“Oh, yes! They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were traced

almost to London, but not beyond: they are certainly not gone to

Scotland.”

“And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover her?”

“My father has gone to London, and Jane has written to beg my uncle’s

immediate assistance, and we shall be off, I hope, in half an hour. But

nothing can be done; I know very well that nothing can be done. How is

such a man to be worked on? How are they even to be discovered? I have

not the smallest hope. It is every way horrible!”

Darcy shook his head in silent acquiescence.

“When _my_ eyes were opened to his real character, oh! had I known what

I ought, what I dared to do! But I knew not--I was afraid of doing too

much. Wretched, wretched mistake!”

Darcy made no answer. He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking up

and down the room in earnest meditation; his brow contracted, his air

gloomy. Elizabeth soon observed, and instantly understood it. Her power

was sinking; everything _must_ sink under such a proof of family

weakness, such an assurance of the deepest disgrace. She could neither

wonder nor condemn; but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing

consolatory to her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress. It

was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own

wishes; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved

him, as now, when all love must be vain.

But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her. Lydia--the

humiliation, the misery she was bringing on them all--soon swallowed up