another transfusion of blood, and that soon, or that poor girl’s life

won’t be worth an hour’s purchase. You are exhausted already; I am

exhausted too. I fear to trust those women, even if they would have

courage to submit. What are we to do for some one who will open his

veins for her?”

“What’s the matter with me, anyhow?”

The voice came from the sofa across the room, and its tones brought

relief and joy to my heart, for they were those of Quincey Morris. Van

Helsing started angrily at the first sound, but his face softened and a

glad look came into his eyes as I cried out: “Quincey Morris!” and

rushed towards him with outstretched hands.

“What brought you here?” I cried as our hands met.

“I guess Art is the cause.”

He handed me a telegram:--

“Have not heard from Seward for three days, and am terribly anxious.

Cannot leave. Father still in same condition. Send me word how Lucy is.

Do not delay.--HOLMWOOD.”

“I think I came just in the nick of time. You know you have only to tell

me what to do.”

Van Helsing strode forward, and took his hand, looking him straight in

the eyes as he said:--

“A brave man’s blood is the best thing on this earth when a woman is in

trouble. You’re a man and no mistake. Well, the devil may work against

us for all he’s worth, but God sends us men when we want them.”

Once again we went through that ghastly operation. I have not the heart

to go through with the details. Lucy had got a terrible shock and it

told on her more than before, for though plenty of blood went into her

veins, her body did not respond to the treatment as well as on the other

occasions. Her struggle back into life was something frightful to see

and hear. However, the action of both heart and lungs improved, and Van

Helsing made a subcutaneous injection of morphia, as before, and with

good effect. Her faint became a profound slumber. The Professor watched

whilst I went downstairs with Quincey Morris, and sent one of the maids

to pay off one of the cabmen who were waiting. I left Quincey lying down

after having a glass of wine, and told the cook to get ready a good

breakfast. Then a thought struck me, and I went back to the room where

Lucy now was. When I came softly in, I found Van Helsing with a sheet or

two of note-paper in his hand. He had evidently read it, and was

thinking it over as he sat with his hand to his brow. There was a look

of grim satisfaction in his face, as of one who has had a doubt solved.

He handed me the paper saying only: “It dropped from Lucy’s breast when

we carried her to the bath.”

When I had read it, I stood looking at the Professor, and after a pause

asked him: “In God’s name, what does it all mean? Was she, or is she,

mad; or what sort of horrible danger is it?” I was so bewildered that I

did not know what to say more. Van Helsing put out his hand and took the

paper, saying:--

“Do not trouble about it now. Forget it for the present. You shall know

and understand it all in good time; but it will be later. And now what

is it that you came to me to say?” This brought me back to fact, and I

was all myself again.

“I came to speak about the certificate of death. If we do not act

properly and wisely, there may be an inquest, and that paper would have

to be produced. I am in hopes that we need have no inquest, for if we

had it would surely kill poor Lucy, if nothing else did. I know, and you

know, and the other doctor who attended her knows, that Mrs. Westenra

had disease of the heart, and we can certify that she died of it. Let us

fill up the certificate at once, and I shall take it myself to the

registrar and go on to the undertaker.”

“Good, oh my friend John! Well thought of! Truly Miss Lucy, if she be

sad in the foes that beset her, is at least happy in the friends that

love her. One, two, three, all open their veins for her, besides one old

man. Ah yes, I know, friend John; I am not blind! I love you all the

more for it! Now go.”