affair. It is not good that she run a risk so great. We men are

determined--nay, are we not pledged?--to destroy this monster; but it is

no part for a woman. Even if she be not harmed, her heart may fail her

in so much and so many horrors; and hereafter she may suffer--both in

waking, from her nerves, and in sleep, from her dreams. And, besides,

she is young woman and not so long married; there may be other things to

think of some time, if not now. You tell me she has wrote all, then she

must consult with us; but to-morrow she say good-bye to this work, and

we go alone.” I agreed heartily with him, and then I told him what we

had found in his absence: that the house which Dracula had bought was

the very next one to my own. He was amazed, and a great concern seemed

to come on him. “Oh that we had known it before!” he said, “for then we

might have reached him in time to save poor Lucy. However, ‘the milk

that is spilt cries not out afterwards,’ as you say. We shall not think

of that, but go on our way to the end.” Then he fell into a silence that

lasted till we entered my own gateway. Before we went to prepare for

dinner he said to Mrs. Harker:--

“I am told, Madam Mina, by my friend John that you and your husband have

put up in exact order all things that have been, up to this moment.”

“Not up to this moment, Professor,” she said impulsively, “but up to

this morning.”

“But why not up to now? We have seen hitherto how good light all the

little things have made. We have told our secrets, and yet no one who

has told is the worse for it.”

Mrs. Harker began to blush, and taking a paper from her pockets, she

said:--

“Dr. Van Helsing, will you read this, and tell me if it must go in. It

is my record of to-day. I too have seen the need of putting down at

present everything, however trivial; but there is little in this except

what is personal. Must it go in?” The Professor read it over gravely,

and handed it back, saying:--

“It need not go in if you do not wish it; but I pray that it may. It can

but make your husband love you the more, and all us, your friends, more

honour you--as well as more esteem and love.” She took it back with

another blush and a bright smile.

And so now, up to this very hour, all the records we have are complete

and in order. The Professor took away one copy to study after dinner,

and before our meeting, which is fixed for nine o’clock. The rest of us

have already read everything; so when we meet in the study we shall all

be informed as to facts, and can arrange our plan of battle with this

terrible and mysterious enemy.

_Mina Harker’s Journal._

_30 September._--When we met in Dr. Seward’s study two hours after

dinner, which had been at six o’clock, we unconsciously formed a sort of

board or committee. Professor Van Helsing took the head of the table, to

which Dr. Seward motioned him as he came into the room. He made me sit

next to him on his right, and asked me to act as secretary; Jonathan sat

next to me. Opposite us were Lord Godalming, Dr. Seward, and Mr.

Morris--Lord Godalming being next the Professor, and Dr. Seward in the

centre. The Professor said:--

“I may, I suppose, take it that we are all acquainted with the facts

that are in these papers.” We all expressed assent, and he went on:--

“Then it were, I think good that I tell you something of the kind of

enemy with which we have to deal. I shall then make known to you

something of the history of this man, which has been ascertained for me.

So we then can discuss how we shall act, and can take our measure

according.

“There are such beings as vampires; some of us have evidence that they

exist. Even had we not the proof of our own unhappy experience, the

teachings and the records of the past give proof enough for sane

peoples. I admit that at the first I was sceptic. Were it not that

through long years I have train myself to keep an open mind, I could not

have believe until such time as that fact thunder on my ear. ‘See! see!

I prove; I prove.’ Alas! Had I known at the first what now I know--nay,

had I even guess at him--one so precious life had been spared to many of

us who did love her. But that is gone; and we must so work, that other

poor souls perish not, whilst we can save. The _nosferatu_ do not die