included them both in the same glance; as if to detect and explain to

herself the relation which they bore to one another. For some

unaccountable reason, as Arthur Dimmesdale felt the child’s eyes upon

himself, his hand—with that gesture so habitual as to have become

involuntary—stole over his heart. At length, assuming a singular air

of authority, Pearl stretched out her hand, with the small forefinger

extended, and pointing evidently towards her mother’s breast. And

beneath, in the mirror of the brook, there was the flower-girdled and

sunny image of little Pearl, pointing her small forefinger too.

“Thou strange child, why dost thou not come to me?” exclaimed Hester.

Pearl still pointed with her forefinger; and a frown gathered on her

brow; the more impressive from the childish, the almost baby-like

aspect of the features that conveyed it. As her mother still kept

beckoning to her, and arraying her face in a holiday suit of

unaccustomed smiles, the child stamped her foot with a yet more

imperious look and gesture. In the brook, again, was the fantastic

beauty of the image, with its reflected frown, its pointed finger, and

imperious gesture, giving emphasis to the aspect of little Pearl.

“Hasten, Pearl; or I shall be angry with thee!” cried Hester Prynne,

who, however inured to such behavior on the elf-child’s part at other

seasons, was naturally anxious for a more seemly deportment now. “Leap

across the brook, naughty child, and run hither! Else I must come to

thee!”

But Pearl, not a whit startled at her mother’s threats, any more than

mollified by her entreaties, now suddenly burst into a fit of passion,

gesticulating violently, and throwing her small figure into the most

extravagant contortions. She accompanied this wild outbreak with

piercing shrieks, which the woods reverberated on all sides; so that,

alone as she was in her childish and unreasonable wrath, it seemed as

if a hidden multitude were lending her their sympathy and

encouragement. Seen in the brook, once more, was the shadowy wrath of

Pearl’s image, crowned and girdled with flowers, but stamping its

foot, wildly gesticulating, and, in the midst of all, still pointing

its small forefinger at Hester’s bosom!

“I see what ails the child,” whispered Hester to the clergyman, and

turning pale in spite of a strong effort to conceal her trouble and

annoyance. “Children will not abide any, the slightest, change in the

accustomed aspect of things that are daily before their eyes. Pearl

misses something which she has always seen me wear!”

“I pray you,” answered the minister, “if thou hast any means of

pacifying the child, do it forthwith! Save it were the cankered wrath

of an old witch, like Mistress Hibbins,” added he, attempting to

smile, “I know nothing that I would not sooner encounter than this

passion in a child. In Pearl’s young beauty, as in the wrinkled witch,

it has a preternatural effect. Pacify her, if thou lovest me!”

Hester turned again towards Pearl, with a crimson blush upon her

cheek, a conscious glance aside at the clergyman, and then a heavy

sigh; while, even before she had time to speak, the blush yielded to a

deadly pallor.

“Pearl,” said she, sadly, “look down at thy feet! There!—before

thee!—on the hither side of the brook!”

The child turned her eyes to the point indicated; and there lay the

scarlet letter, so close upon the margin of the stream, that the gold

embroidery was reflected in it.

“Bring it hither!” said Hester.

“Come thou and take it up!” answered Pearl.

“Was ever such a child!” observed Hester, aside to the minister. “O, I

have much to tell thee about her! But, in very truth, she is right as

regards this hateful token. I must bear its torture yet a little

longer,—only a few days longer,—until we shall have left this

region, and look back hither as to a land which we have dreamed of.

The forest cannot hide it! The mid-ocean shall take it from my hand,

and swallow it up forever!”

With these words, she advanced to the margin of the brook, took up the

scarlet letter, and fastened it again into her bosom. Hopefully, but a

moment ago, as Hester had spoken of drowning it in the deep sea, there

was a sense of inevitable doom upon her, as she thus received back

this deadly symbol from the hand of fate. She had flung it into

infinite space!—she had drawn an hour’s free breath!—and here again

was the scarlet misery, glittering on the old spot! So it ever is,

whether thus typified or no, that an evil deed invests itself with the

character of doom. Hester next gathered up the heavy tresses of her

hair, and confined them beneath her cap. As if there were a withering

spell in the sad letter, her beauty, the warmth and richness of her

womanhood, departed, like fading sunshine; and a gray shadow seemed to