 Rom. O blessed blessed night, I am afear'd

Being in night, all this is but a dreame,

Too flattering sweet to be substantiall

 Iul. Three words deare Romeo,

And goodnight indeed,

If that thy bent of Loue be Honourable,

Thy purpose marriage, send me word to morrow,

By one that Ile procure to come to thee,

Where and what time thou wilt performe the right,

And all my Fortunes at thy foote Ile lay,

And follow thee my Lord throughout the world

 Within: Madam.

I come, anon: but if thou meanest not well,

I do beseech thee

 Within: Madam.

(By and by I come)

To cease thy strife, and leaue me to my griefe,

To morrow will I send

 Rom. So thriue my soule

 Iu. A thousand times goodnight.

Enter.

 Rome. A thousand times the worse to want thy light,

Loue goes toward Loue as school-boyes fro[m] their books

But Loue fro[m] Loue, towards schoole with heauie lookes.

Enter Iuliet againe.

 Iul. Hist Romeo hist: O for a Falkners voice,

To lure this Tassell gentle backe againe,

Bondage is hoarse, and may not speake aloud,

Else would I teare the Caue where Eccho lies,

And make her ayrie tongue more hoarse, then

With repetition of my Romeo

 Rom. It is my soule that calls vpon my name.

How siluer sweet, sound Louers tongues by night,

Like softest Musicke to attending eares

 Iul. Romeo

 Rom. My Neece

 Iul. What a clock to morrow

Shall I send to thee?

 Rom. By the houre of nine

 Iul. I will not faile, 'tis twenty yeares till then,

I haue forgot why I did call thee backe

 Rom. Let me stand here till thou remember it

 Iul. I shall forget, to haue thee still stand there,

Remembring how I Loue thy company

 Rom. And Ile still stay, to haue thee still forget,

Forgetting any other home but this

 Iul. 'Tis almost morning, I would haue thee gone,

And yet no further then a wantons Bird,

That let's it hop a little from his hand,

Like a poore prisoner in his twisted Gyues,

And with a silken thred plucks it backe againe,

So louing Iealous of his liberty

 Rom. I would I were thy Bird

 Iul. Sweet so would I,

Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing:

Good night, good night

 Rom. Parting is such sweete sorrow,

That I shall say goodnight, till it be morrow

 Iul. Sleepe dwell vpon thine eyes, peace in thy brest

 Rom. Would I were sleepe and peace so sweet to rest,

The gray ey'd morne smiles on the frowning night,

Checkring the Easterne Clouds with streakes of light,

And darkenesse fleckel'd like a drunkard reeles,

From forth dayes pathway, made by Titans wheeles.

Hence will I to my ghostly Friers close Cell,

His helpe to craue, and my deare hap to tell.

Enter.

Enter Frier alone with a basket.

 Fri. The gray ey'd morne smiles on the frowning night,

Checkring the Easterne Cloudes with streaks of light:

And fleckled darknesse like a drunkard reeles,

From forth daies path, and Titans burning wheeles:

Now ere the Sun aduance his burning eye,

The day to cheere, and nights danke dew to dry,

I must vpfill this Osier Cage of ours,

With balefull weedes, and precious Iuiced flowers,

The earth that's Natures mother, is her Tombe,