to feed. Then when I return to the fire she have my supper ready. I go

to help her; but she smile, and tell me that she have eat already--that

she was so hungry that she would not wait. I like it not, and I have

grave doubts; but I fear to affright her, and so I am silent of it. She

help me and I eat alone; and then we wrap in fur and lie beside the

fire, and I tell her to sleep while I watch. But presently I forget all

of watching; and when I sudden remember that I watch, I find her lying

quiet, but awake, and looking at me with so bright eyes. Once, twice

more the same occur, and I get much sleep till before morning. When I

wake I try to hypnotise her; but alas! though she shut her eyes

obedient, she may not sleep. The sun rise up, and up, and up; and then

sleep come to her too late, but so heavy that she will not wake. I have

to lift her up, and place her sleeping in the carriage when I have

harnessed the horses and made all ready. Madam still sleep, and she look

in her sleep more healthy and more redder than before. And I like it

not. And I am afraid, afraid, afraid!--I am afraid of all things--even

to think but I must go on my way. The stake we play for is life and

death, or more than these, and we must not flinch.

 * * * * *

_5 November, morning._--Let me be accurate in everything, for though you

and I have seen some strange things together, you may at the first think

that I, Van Helsing, am mad--that the many horrors and the so long

strain on nerves has at the last turn my brain.

All yesterday we travel, ever getting closer to the mountains, and

moving into a more and more wild and desert land. There are great,

frowning precipices and much falling water, and Nature seem to have held

sometime her carnival. Madam Mina still sleep and sleep; and though I

did have hunger and appeased it, I could not waken her--even for food. I

began to fear that the fatal spell of the place was upon her, tainted as

she is with that Vampire baptism. “Well,” said I to myself, “if it be

that she sleep all the day, it shall also be that I do not sleep at

night.” As we travel on the rough road, for a road of an ancient and

imperfect kind there was, I held down my head and slept. Again I waked

with a sense of guilt and of time passed, and found Madam Mina still

sleeping, and the sun low down. But all was indeed changed; the frowning

mountains seemed further away, and we were near the top of a

steep-rising hill, on summit of which was such a castle as Jonathan tell

of in his diary. At once I exulted and feared; for now, for good or ill,

the end was near.

I woke Madam Mina, and again tried to hypnotise her; but alas!

unavailing till too late. Then, ere the great dark came upon us--for

even after down-sun the heavens reflected the gone sun on the snow, and

all was for a time in a great twilight--I took out the horses and fed

them in what shelter I could. Then I make a fire; and near it I make

Madam Mina, now awake and more charming than ever, sit comfortable amid

her rugs. I got ready food: but she would not eat, simply saying that

she had not hunger. I did not press her, knowing her unavailingness. But

I myself eat, for I must needs now be strong for all. Then, with the

fear on me of what might be, I drew a ring so big for her comfort, round

where Madam Mina sat; and over the ring I passed some of the wafer, and

I broke it fine so that all was well guarded. She sat still all the

time--so still as one dead; and she grew whiter and ever whiter till the

snow was not more pale; and no word she said. But when I drew near, she

clung to me, and I could know that the poor soul shook her from head to

feet with a tremor that was pain to feel. I said to her presently, when

she had grown more quiet:--

“Will you not come over to the fire?” for I wished to make a test of

what she could. She rose obedient, but when she have made a step she

stopped, and stood as one stricken.

“Why not go on?” I asked. She shook her head, and, coming back, sat

down in her place. Then, looking at me with open eyes, as of one waked

from sleep, she said simply:--

“I cannot!” and remained silent. I rejoiced, for I knew that what she

could not, none of those that we dreaded could. Though there might be