was so little to be trusted.”

“You must not blame my aunt. Lydia’s thoughtlessness first betrayed to

me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of course, I could

not rest till I knew the particulars. Let me thank you again and again,

in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced

you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortifications, for the

sake of discovering them.”

“If you _will_ thank me,” he replied, “let it be for yourself alone.

That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other

inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny. But your

_family_ owe me nothing. Much as I respect them, I believe I thought

only of _you_.”

Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word. After a short pause,

her companion added, “You are too generous to trifle with me. If your

feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once. _My_

affections and wishes are unchanged; but one word from you will silence

me on this subject for ever.”

Elizabeth, feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of

his situation, now forced herself to speak; and immediately, though not

very fluently, gave him to understand that her sentiments had undergone

so material a change since the period to which he alluded, as to make

her receive with gratitude and pleasure his present assurances. The

happiness which this reply produced was such as he had probably never

felt before; and he expressed himself on the occasion as sensibly and as

warmly as a man violently in love can be supposed to do. Had Elizabeth

been able to encounter his eyes, she might have seen how well the

expression of heartfelt delight diffused over his face became him: but

though she could not look she could listen; and he told her of feelings

which, in proving of what importance she was to him, made his affection

every moment more valuable.

They walked on without knowing in what direction. There was too much to

be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects. She

soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding

to the efforts of his aunt, who _did_ call on him in her return through

London, and there relate her journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the

substance of her conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on

every expression of the latter, which, in her Ladyship’s apprehension,

peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance, in the belief that

such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise from

her nephew which _she_ had refused to give. But, unluckily for her

Ladyship, its effect had been exactly contrariwise.

“It taught me to hope,” said he, “as I had scarcely ever allowed myself

to hope before. I knew enough of your disposition to be certain, that

had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have

acknowledged it to Lady Catherine frankly and openly.”

Elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied, “Yes, you know enough of

my _frankness_ to believe me capable of _that_. After abusing you so

abominably to your face, I could have no scruple in abusing you to all

your relations.”

“What did you say of me that I did not deserve? For though your

accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour

to you at the time had merited the severest reproof. It was

unpardonable. I cannot think of it without abhorrence.”

“We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that

evening,” said Elizabeth. “The conduct of neither, if strictly

examined, will be irreproachable; but since then we have both, I hope,

improved in civility.”

“I cannot be so easily reconciled to myself. The recollection of what I

then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions during the whole of

it, is now, and has been many months, inexpressibly painful to me. Your

reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: ‘Had you behaved in a

more gentlemanlike manner.’ Those were your words. You know not, you can

scarcely conceive, how they have tortured me; though it was some time, I

confess, before I was reasonable enough to allow their justice.”

“I was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an

impression. I had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such

a way.”

“I can easily believe it. You thought me then devoid of every proper

feeling, I am sure you did. The turn of your countenance I shall never

forget, as you said that I could not have addressed you in any possible

way that would induce you to accept me.”

“Oh, do not repeat what I then said. These recollections will not do at

all. I assure you that I have long been most heartily ashamed of it.”