Mr. and Mrs. Samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had to

make an effort to get over the shock caused by the cleaner before they

could grasp what she was saying. But then, each from his own side, they

hurried out of bed. Mr. Samsa threw the blanket over his shoulders,

Mrs. Samsa just came out in her nightdress; and that is how they went

into Gregor’s room. On the way they opened the door to the living room

where Grete had been sleeping since the three gentlemen had moved in;

she was fully dressed as if she had never been asleep, and the paleness

of her face seemed to confirm this. “Dead?”, asked Mrs. Samsa, looking

at the charwoman enquiringly, even though she could have checked for

herself and could have known it even without checking. “That’s what I

said”, replied the cleaner, and to prove it she gave Gregor’s body

another shove with the broom, sending it sideways across the floor.

Mrs. Samsa made a movement as if she wanted to hold back the broom, but

did not complete it. “Now then”, said Mr. Samsa, “let’s give thanks to

God for that”. He crossed himself, and the three women followed his

example. Grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: “Just

look how thin he was. He didn’t eat anything for so long. The food came

out again just the same as when it went in”. Gregor’s body was indeed

completely dried up and flat, they had not seen it until then, but now

he was not lifted up on his little legs, nor did he do anything to make

them look away.

“Grete, come with us in here for a little while”, said Mrs. Samsa with

a pained smile, and Grete followed her parents into the bedroom but not

without looking back at the body. The cleaner shut the door and opened

the window wide. Although it was still early in the morning the fresh

air had something of warmth mixed in with it. It was already the end of

March, after all.

The three gentlemen stepped out of their room and looked round in

amazement for their breakfasts; they had been forgotten about. “Where

is our breakfast?”, the middle gentleman asked the cleaner irritably.

She just put her finger on her lips and made a quick and silent sign to

the men that they might like to come into Gregor’s room. They did so,

and stood around Gregor’s corpse with their hands in the pockets of

their well-worn coats. It was now quite light in the room.

Then the door of the bedroom opened and Mr. Samsa appeared in his

uniform with his wife on one arm and his daughter on the other. All of

them had been crying a little; Grete now and then pressed her face

against her father’s arm.

“Leave my home. Now!”, said Mr. Samsa, indicating the door and without

letting the women from him. “What do you mean?”, asked the middle of

the three gentlemen somewhat disconcerted, and he smiled sweetly. The

other two held their hands behind their backs and continually rubbed

them together in gleeful anticipation of a loud quarrel which could

only end in their favour. “I mean just what I said”, answered Mr.

Samsa, and, with his two companions, went in a straight line towards

the man. At first, he stood there still, looking at the ground as if

the contents of his head were rearranging themselves into new

positions. “Alright, we’ll go then”, he said, and looked up at Mr.

Samsa as if he had been suddenly overcome with humility and wanted

permission again from Mr. Samsa for his decision. Mr. Samsa merely

opened his eyes wide and briefly nodded to him several times. At that,

and without delay, the man actually did take long strides into the

front hallway; his two friends had stopped rubbing their hands some

time before and had been listening to what was being said. Now they

jumped off after their friend as if taken with a sudden fear that Mr.

Samsa might go into the hallway in front of them and break the

connection with their leader. Once there, all three took their hats

from the stand, took their sticks from the holder, bowed without a word

and left the premises. Mr. Samsa and the two women followed them out

onto the landing; but they had had no reason to mistrust the men’s

intentions and as they leaned over the landing they saw how the three

gentlemen made slow but steady progress down the many steps. As they

turned the corner on each floor they disappeared and would reappear a

few moments later; the further down they went, the more that the Samsa

family lost interest in them; when a butcher’s boy, proud of posture

with his tray on his head, passed them on his way up and came nearer

than they were, Mr. Samsa and the women came away from the landing and

went, as if relieved, back into the flat.