But the past was not dead. Once in a great while the thoughts that had

seemed so vital and so active, yet had been put to rest so quietly,

revived again. One of the most remarkable occasions, when the habit of

bygone days awoke in me, was that which brings it within the law of

literary propriety to offer the public the sketch which I am now

writing.

In the second story of the Custom-House there is a large room, in

which the brick-work and naked rafters have never been covered with

panelling and plaster. The edifice—originally projected on a scale

adapted to the old commercial enterprise of the port, and with an idea

of subsequent prosperity destined never to be realized—contains far

more space than its occupants know what to do with. This airy hall,

therefore, over the Collector’s apartments, remains unfinished to this

day, and, in spite of the aged cobwebs that festoon its dusky beams,

appears still to await the labor of the carpenter and mason. At one

end of the room, in a recess, were a number of barrels, piled one upon

another, containing bundles of official documents. Large quantities of

similar rubbish lay lumbering the floor. It was sorrowful to think how

many days and weeks and months and years of toil had been wasted on

these musty papers, which were now only an encumbrance on earth, and

were hidden away in this forgotten corner, never more to be glanced at

by human eyes. But, then, what reams of other manuscripts—filled not

with the dulness of official formalities, but with the thought of

inventive brains and the rich effusion of deep hearts—had gone

equally to oblivion; and that, moreover, without serving a purpose in

their day, as these heaped-up papers had, and—saddest of

all—without purchasing for their writers the comfortable livelihood

which the clerks of the Custom-House had gained by these worthless

scratchings of the pen! Yet not altogether worthless, perhaps, as

materials of local history. Here, no doubt, statistics of the former

commerce of Salem might be discovered, and memorials of her princely

merchants,—old King Derby, old Billy Gray, old Simon Forrester, and

many another magnate in his day; whose powdered head, however, was

scarcely in the tomb, before his mountain pile of wealth began to

dwindle. The founders of the greater part of the families which now

compose the aristocracy of Salem might here be traced, from the petty

and obscure beginnings of their traffic, at periods generally much

posterior to the Revolution, upward to what their children look upon

as long-established rank.

Prior to the Revolution there is a dearth of records; the earlier

documents and archives of the Custom-House having, probably, been

carried off to Halifax, when all the King’s officials accompanied the

British army in its flight from Boston. It has often been a matter of

regret with me; for, going back, perhaps, to the days of the

Protectorate, those papers must have contained many references to

forgotten or remembered men, and to antique customs, which would have

affected me with the same pleasure as when I used to pick up Indian

arrow-heads in the field near the Old Manse.

But, one idle and rainy day, it was my fortune to make a discovery of

some little interest. Poking and burrowing into the heaped-up rubbish

in the corner; unfolding one and another document, and reading the

names of vessels that had long ago foundered at sea or rotted at the

wharves, and those of merchants, never heard of now on ’Change, nor

very readily decipherable on their mossy tombstones; glancing at such

matters with the saddened, weary, half-reluctant interest which we

bestow on the corpse of dead activity,—and exerting my fancy,

sluggish with little use, to raise up from these dry bones an image of

the old town’s brighter aspect, when India was a new region, and only

Salem knew the way thither,—I chanced to lay my hand on a small

package, carefully done up in a piece of ancient yellow parchment.

This envelope had the air of an official record of some period long

past, when clerks engrossed their stiff and formal chirography on more

substantial materials than at present. There was something about it

that quickened an instinctive curiosity, and made me undo the faded

red tape, that tied up the package, with the sense that a treasure

would here be brought to light. Unbending the rigid folds of the

parchment cover, I found it to be a commission, under the hand and

seal of Governor Shirley, in favor of one Jonathan Pue, as Surveyor of

his Majesty’s Customs for the port of Salem, in the Province of

Massachusetts Bay. I remember to have read (probably in Felt’s Annals)

a notice of the decease of Mr. Surveyor Pue, about fourscore years

ago; and likewise, in a newspaper of recent times, an account of the

digging up of his remains in the little graveyard of St. Peter’s

Church, during the renewal of that edifice. Nothing, if I rightly call

to mind, was left of my respected predecessor, save an imperfect

skeleton, and some fragments of apparel, and a wig of majestic

frizzle; which, unlike the head that it once adorned, was in very

satisfactory preservation. But, on examining the papers which the

parchment commission served to envelop, I found more traces of Mr.

Pue’s mental part, and the internal operations of his head, than the

frizzled wig had contained of the venerable skull itself.