You tread behind his every footstep. You are beside him, sleeping and

waking. You search his thoughts. You burrow and rankle in his heart!

Your clutch is on his life, and you cause him to die daily a living

death; and still he knows you not. In permitting this, I have surely

acted a false part by the only man to whom the power was left me to be

true!”

“What choice had you?” asked Roger Chillingworth. “My finger, pointed

at this man, would have hurled him from his pulpit into a

dungeon,—thence, peradventure, to the gallows!”

“It had been better so!” said Hester Prynne.

“What evil have I done the man?” asked Roger Chillingworth again. “I

tell thee, Hester Prynne, the richest fee that ever physician earned

from monarch could not have bought such care as I have wasted on this

miserable priest! But for my aid, his life would have burned away in

torments, within the first two years after the perpetration of his

crime and thine. For, Hester, his spirit lacked the strength that

could have borne up, as thine has, beneath a burden like thy scarlet

letter. O, I could reveal a goodly secret! But enough! What art can

do, I have exhausted on him. That he now breathes, and creeps about on

earth, is owing all to me!”

“Better he had died at once!” said Hester Prynne.

“Yea, woman, thou sayest truly!” cried old Roger Chillingworth,

letting the lurid fire of his heart blaze out before her eyes. “Better

had he died at once! Never did mortal suffer what this man has

suffered. And all, all, in the sight of his worst enemy! He has been

conscious of me. He has felt an influence dwelling always upon him

like a curse. He knew, by some spiritual sense,—for the Creator never

made another being so sensitive as this,—he knew that no friendly

hand was pulling at his heart-strings, and that an eye was looking

curiously into him, which sought only evil, and found it. But he knew

not that the eye and hand were mine! With the superstition common to

his brotherhood, he fancied himself given over to a fiend, to be

tortured with frightful dreams, and desperate thoughts, the sting of

remorse, and despair of pardon; as a foretaste of what awaits him

beyond the grave. But it was the constant shadow of my presence!—the

closest propinquity of the man whom he had most vilely wronged!—and

who had grown to exist only by this perpetual poison of the direst

revenge! Yea, indeed!—he did not err!—there was a fiend at his

elbow! A mortal man, with once a human heart, has become a fiend for

his especial torment!”

The unfortunate physician, while uttering these words, lifted his

hands with a look of horror, as if he had beheld some frightful shape,

which he could not recognize, usurping the place of his own image in

a glass. It was one of those moments—which sometimes occur only at

the interval of years—when a man’s moral aspect is faithfully

revealed to his mind’s eye. Not improbably, he had never before viewed

himself as he did now.

“Hast thou not tortured him enough?” said Hester, noticing the old

man’s look. “Has he not paid thee all?”

“No!—no!—He has but increased the debt!” answered the physician; and

as he proceeded his manner lost its fiercer characteristics, and

subsided into gloom. “Dost thou remember me, Hester, as I was nine

years agone? Even then, I was in the autumn of my days, nor was it the

early autumn. But all my life had been made up of earnest, studious,

thoughtful, quiet years, bestowed faithfully for the increase of mine

own knowledge, and faithfully, too, though this latter object was but

casual to the other,—faithfully for the advancement of human welfare.

No life had been more peaceful and innocent than mine; few lives so

rich with benefits conferred. Dost thou remember me? Was I not, though

you might deem me cold, nevertheless a man thoughtful for others,

craving little for himself,—kind, true, just, and of constant, if not

warm affections? Was I not all this?”

“All this, and more,” said Hester.

“And what am I now?” demanded he, looking into her face, and

permitting the whole evil within him to be written on his features. “I