of? What are you telling Miss Bennet? Let me hear what it is.”

“We were talking of music, madam,” said he, when no longer able to avoid

a reply.

“Of music! Then pray speak aloud. It is of all subjects my delight. I

must have my share in the conversation, if you are speaking of music.

There are few people in England, I suppose, who have more true

enjoyment of music than myself, or a better natural taste. If I had ever

learnt, I should have been a great proficient. And so would Anne, if her

health had allowed her to apply. I am confident that she would have

performed delightfully. How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?”

Mr. Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sister’s proficiency.

“I am very glad to hear such a good account of her,” said Lady

Catherine; “and pray tell her from me, that she cannot expect to excel,

if she does not practise a great deal.”

“I assure you, madam,” he replied, “that she does not need such advice.

She practises very constantly.”

“So much the better. It cannot be done too much; and when I next write

to her, I shall charge her not to neglect it on any account. I often

tell young ladies, that no excellence in music is to be acquired without

constant practice. I have told Miss Bennet several times, that she will

never play really well, unless she practises more; and though Mrs.

Collins has no instrument, she is very welcome, as I have often told

her, to come to Rosings every day, and play on the pianoforte in Mrs.

Jenkinson’s room. She would be in nobody’s way, you know, in that part

of the house.”

Mr. Darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunt’s ill-breeding, and made

no answer.

When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having

promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the instrument. He

drew a chair near her. Lady Catherine listened to half a song, and then

talked, as before, to her other nephew; till the latter walked away from

her, and moving with his usual deliberation towards the pianoforte,

stationed himself so as to command a full view of the fair performer’s

countenance. Elizabeth saw what he was doing, and at the first

convenient pause turned to him with an arch smile, and said,--

“You mean to frighten me, Mr. Darcy, by coming in all this state to hear

me. But I will not be alarmed, though your sister _does_ play so well.

There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at

the will of others. My courage always rises with every attempt to

intimidate me.”

“I shall not say that you are mistaken,” he replied, “because you could

not really believe me to entertain any design of alarming you; and I

have had the pleasure of your acquaintance long enough to know, that you

find great enjoyment in occasionally professing opinions which, in fact,

are not your own.”

Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said to

Colonel Fitzwilliam, “Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of

me, and teach you not to believe a word I say. I am particularly unlucky

in meeting with a person so well able to expose my real character, in a

part of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some degree

of credit. Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it is very ungenerous in you to mention

all that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire--and, give me

leave to say, very impolitic too--for it is provoking me to retaliate,

and such things may come out as will shock your relations to hear.”

“I am not afraid of you,” said he, smilingly.

“Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of,” cried Colonel

Fitzwilliam. “I should like to know how he behaves among strangers.”

“You shall hear, then--but prepare for something very dreadful. The

first time of my ever seeing him in Hertfordshire, you must know, was at

a ball--and at this ball, what do you think he did? He danced only four

dances! I am sorry to pain you, but so it was. He danced only four

dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain knowledge, more

than one young lady was sitting down in want of a partner. Mr. Darcy,

you cannot deny the fact.”

“I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly

beyond my own party.”

“True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room. Well, Colonel

Fitzwilliam, what do I play next? My fingers wait your orders.”

“Perhaps,” said Darcy, “I should have judged better had I sought an

introduction, but I am ill-qualified to recommend myself to strangers.”

“Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?” said Elizabeth, still