Gale--didn't hear anything of what I was saying. He sneaked up on us

before I was aware any one was near but ourselves."

"I don't imagine he heard very much, Tom," said Mr. Damon. "He may have

heard you mention a silent motor--"

"That's just what I wish he hadn't heard," broke in Tom. "That's the

germ of the idea, and once it becomes known that I am working on that--

Well, there's no use crying over spilled milk," and he smiled at the

homely proverb. "I'll have to work in secret, once I've started."

"Do you think the government would use it, Tom?" asked his friend.

"I should think it would be glad to. Consider what a wonderful part

airships are playing in the present war. It really is a struggle to see

which will be the master of the sky--the Allies or the Germans--and, up

to recently, the Huns had the advantage. Then the Allies, recognizing

how vital it was, began to forge ahead, and now Uncle Sam with his

troops under General Pershing is leading everything, or will lead

shortly. We have been a bit slow with our aircraft production, but now

we are booming along. Uncle Sam will soon have the mastery of the sky."

"I hope so," sighed Mr. Damon. "We must beat the Germans!"

Briefly, Tom spoke of what Pershing's men were doing with their

aeroplanes in France, and mention was made of what the French and

British had done prior to the entrance of the United States into the

World War.

"While we were yet neutral, Americans had made gallant names for

themselves flying for France, and with my silent motor they ought to do

better," declared Tom.

"Is silence its chief recommendation?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Yes," replied Tom. "Or rather, it will be when I have it perfected.

Aeroplane motors now are about as compact and speedy as they can be

made. It is only the terrific noise that is a handicap. It is a

handicap to the pilots and observers in the craft, as they cannot

communicate except through a special speaking tube, and this is not

always satisfactory or sure. Then, too, the noise of an airship

proclaims its approach to the enemy, sometimes long before it can be

seen.

"With a silent motor all this would be done away with. With my new

craft, in case I can perfect it, the enemy's lines can be approached as

silently as the Indians used to approach the log cabins of the white

settlers. That will be its great advantage--not that conversation can

be more easily carried on, for that is, after all, an unimportant

detail. But to approach the enemy's lines in the silence of the night

would be a distinct gain."

"I believe it would, Tom!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "And I should think,

too, that Uncle Sam would be glad to get such a motor," he added.

"Well, he'll have one to take if he wants it, if I can make my plans a

success," declared Tom. "That is, unless those other fellows get ahead

of me."

"What other fellows?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Gale, Ware and their crowd," was the answer. "I fancy they are

provoked because I wouldn't agree to work for them, and now, that Gale

overheard--as he must have--what I propose working on, they may try

that game themselves."

"You mean try to turn out a silent motor?"

"Yes. It would be a big feather in their cap for their company, so far,

hasn't been very successful on government orders. That's why they came

to me, I guess."

"I shouldn't be surprised, Tom," conceded Mr. Damon. "Since the

government accepted your giant cannon and your great searchlight, you

have come into greater prominence than ever before. And those two

things are a wonderful success."

"Yes," admitted Tom, modestly enough, "the big electric light seems to

have been of some benefit on the European battle front, and though they

haven't been able to make and transport as many of my giant cannons as

I'd like to see over there, it is progressing, I understand."

And this is true. For the details of these two inventions of Tom

Swift's I refer my readers to the books bearing those titles.

Sufficient to state here that the government was using these two

inventions, and there had been no necessity for commandeering them

either, since Tom had freely offered them at the declaration of war

with Germany.

"Well, since I can't help you with my 'Whizzer,'" said Mr. Damon, with