discordant sounds which seemed to be a combination of an Indian's war

whoop and a college student's yells at a football game.

"Now I wonder what that is!" mused the young inventor as he hastily

arose. "Better solve that problem before I tackle the aeroplane motor."

CHAPTER VIII

THROUGH THE ROOF

Tom rushed from his private office, and when he reached the outer door

he heard with more distinctness the sounds that had alarmed him. They

seemed to come from a small building given over to electrical

apparatus, and which, at the time, was not supposed to be in use. It

had been Tom's workroom, so to speak, when he was developing his

electric runabout and rifle, but of late he had not spent much time in

it.

"Somebody's in there!" reflected the young inventor, as he heard yells

coming from the open door of the place. "And if it isn't Koku and

Eradicate I miss my guess! Wonder what they can be doing there."

He crossed the yard between his private office and the electrical shop

in a few rapid strides, and, as he entered the latter place, he was

greeted with a series of wild yells.

"Good volume of sound here, at all events," mused Tom. "Almost as much

as my motor made when I was trying to talk to Mary. Hello there! What's

going on? Is any one hurt? What's the matter?" he cried, for, at first,

he could see no one in the dim light of the place. The interior was a

maze of electrical apparatus.

"Who's here?" demanded Tom, as he advanced.

"Oh, Master! Come quick! Koku 'most dead an' no can let go!" was the

cry.

"Yo' jest bet yo' cain't let go!" chimed in the voice of Eradicate. "I

done knowed yo would git into trouble ef yo' come heah, an' I'se glad

ob it! So I is!"

"What is it, Rad? What has happened to Koku?" cried Tom, running

forward, for though no very powerful current could be turned on in the

electrical shop at this period of unuse, there was enough to be very

painful. "What is it, Rad?"

"Oh, dat big foolish giant, Koku, done got his se'f into trouble!"

chuckled the colored man. "He done got holt ob one ob dem air

contraptions, Massa Tom, an' he cain't let go! Ha! Ha! Golly! Look at

him squirm!" and Rad laughed shrilly, which accounted for some of the

sounds Tom had heard.

Then came yells of rage and pain from the giant, and they were so loud

and vigorous, mingling with Eradicate's as they did, that it was no

wonder Tom was startled. The sounds were heard in the other shops, and

men came running out. But before then Tom had put an end to the trouble.

One look showed him what had happened. Just how or why Koku and

Eradicate had entered the electrical shop Tom did not then stop to

inquire. But he saw that the giant had grasped the handles of one of

the electric machines, designed for charging Leyden jars used in Tom's

experiments, and the powerful, though not dangerous, current had so

paralyzed, temporarily, the muscles of the giant's hands and arms that

he could not let go, and there he was, squirming, and not knowing how

to turn off the current, and unable to ease himself, while Eradicate

stood and laughed at him, fairly howling with delight.

"Ha! Guess yo' won't do no mo' spadin' in' Massa Tom's garden right

away, big man!" taunted Eradicate.

"Be quiet, Rad!" ordered Tom, as he reached up and pulled out the

switch, thus shutting off the current. "This isn't anything to laugh

at."

"But he done look so funny, Massa Tom!" pleaded the colored man. "He

done squirm laik--"