work. One of them added that it was hard lines that there wasn’t any

gentleman “such-like as yourself, squire,” to show some sort of

appreciation of their efforts in a liquid form; another put in a rider

that the thirst then generated was such that even the time which had

elapsed had not completely allayed it. Needless to add, I took care

before leaving to lift, for ever and adequately, this source of

reproach.

 * * * * *

_30 September._--The station-master was good enough to give me a line to

his old companion the station-master at King’s Cross, so that when I

arrived there in the morning I was able to ask him about the arrival of

the boxes. He, too, put me at once in communication with the proper

officials, and I saw that their tally was correct with the original

invoice. The opportunities of acquiring an abnormal thirst had been here

limited; a noble use of them had, however, been made, and again I was

compelled to deal with the result in an _ex post facto_ manner.

From thence I went on to Carter Paterson’s central office, where I met

with the utmost courtesy. They looked up the transaction in their

day-book and letter-book, and at once telephoned to their King’s Cross

office for more details. By good fortune, the men who did the teaming

were waiting for work, and the official at once sent them over, sending

also by one of them the way-bill and all the papers connected with the

delivery of the boxes at Carfax. Here again I found the tally agreeing

exactly; the carriers’ men were able to supplement the paucity of the

written words with a few details. These were, I shortly found, connected

almost solely with the dusty nature of the job, and of the consequent

thirst engendered in the operators. On my affording an opportunity,

through the medium of the currency of the realm, of the allaying, at a

later period, this beneficial evil, one of the men remarked:--

“That ’ere ’ouse, guv’nor, is the rummiest I ever was in. Blyme! but it

ain’t been touched sence a hundred years. There was dust that thick in

the place that you might have slep’ on it without ’urtin’ of yer bones;

an’ the place was that neglected that yer might ’ave smelled ole

Jerusalem in it. But the ole chapel--that took the cike, that did! Me

and my mate, we thort we wouldn’t never git out quick enough. Lor’, I

wouldn’t take less nor a quid a moment to stay there arter dark.”

Having been in the house, I could well believe him; but if he knew what

I know, he would, I think, have raised his terms.

Of one thing I am now satisfied: that _all_ the boxes which arrived at

Whitby from Varna in the _Demeter_ were safely deposited in the old

chapel at Carfax. There should be fifty of them there, unless any have

since been removed--as from Dr. Seward’s diary I fear.

I shall try to see the carter who took away the boxes from Carfax when

Renfield attacked them. By following up this clue we may learn a good

deal.

 * * * * *

_Later._--Mina and I have worked all day, and we have put all the papers

into order.

_Mina Harker’s Journal_

_30 September._--I am so glad that I hardly know how to contain myself.

It is, I suppose, the reaction from the haunting fear which I have had:

that this terrible affair and the reopening of his old wound might act

detrimentally on Jonathan. I saw him leave for Whitby with as brave a

face as I could, but I was sick with apprehension. The effort has,

however, done him good. He was never so resolute, never so strong, never

so full of volcanic energy, as at present. It is just as that dear, good

Professor Van Helsing said: he is true grit, and he improves under

strain that would kill a weaker nature. He came back full of life and

hope and determination; we have got everything in order for to-night. I

feel myself quite wild with excitement. I suppose one ought to pity any

thing so hunted as is the Count. That is just it: this Thing is not

human--not even beast. To read Dr. Seward’s account of poor Lucy’s

death, and what followed, is enough to dry up the springs of pity in

one’s heart.

 * * * * *

_Later._--Lord Godalming and Mr. Morris arrived earlier than we

expected. Dr. Seward was out on business, and had taken Jonathan with

him, so I had to see them. It was to me a painful meeting, for it

brought back all poor dear Lucy’s hopes of only a few months ago. Of

course they had heard Lucy speak of me, and it seemed that Dr. Van