“This is a wretched beginning, indeed! My sole dependence was on you;

and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not. Yet, indeed, I

am in earnest. I speak nothing but the truth. He still loves me, and we

are engaged.”

Jane looked at her doubtingly. “Oh, Lizzy! it cannot be. I know how much

you dislike him.”

“You know nothing of the matter. _That_ is all to be forgot. Perhaps I

did not always love him so well as I do now; but in such cases as these

a good memory is unpardonable. This is the last time I shall ever

remember it myself.”

Miss Bennet still looked all amazement. Elizabeth again, and more

seriously, assured her of its truth.

“Good heaven! can it be really so? Yet now I must believe you,” cried

Jane. “My dear, dear Lizzy, I would, I do congratulate you; but are you

certain--forgive the question--are you quite certain that you can be

happy with him?”

“There can be no doubt of that. It is settled between us already that we

are to be the happiest couple in the world. But are you pleased, Jane?

Shall you like to have such a brother?”

“Very, very much. Nothing could give either Bingley or myself more

delight. But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible. And do you

really love him quite well enough? Oh, Lizzy! do anything rather than

marry without affection. Are you quite sure that you feel what you ought

to do?”

“Oh, yes! You will only think I feel _more_ than I ought to do when I

tell you all.”

“What do you mean?”

“Why, I must confess that I love him better than I do Bingley. I am

afraid you will be angry.”

“My dearest sister, now be, _be_ serious. I want to talk very seriously.

Let me know everything that I am to know without delay. Will you tell me

how long you have loved him?”

“It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it began;

but I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds

at Pemberley.”

Another entreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the

desired effect; and she soon satisfied Jane by her solemn assurances of

attachment. When convinced on that article, Miss Bennet had nothing

further to wish.

“Now I am quite happy,” said she, “for you will be as happy as myself. I

always had a value for him. Were it for nothing but his love of you, I

must always have esteemed him; but now, as Bingley’s friend and your

husband, there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear to me. But,

Lizzy, you have been very sly, very reserved with me. How little did you

tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton! I owe all that I know

of it to another, not to you.”

Elizabeth told her the motives of her secrecy. She had been unwilling to

mention Bingley; and the unsettled state of her own feelings had made

her equally avoid the name of his friend: but now she would no longer

conceal from her his share in Lydia’s marriage. All was acknowledged,

and half the night spent in conversation.

“Good gracious!” cried Mrs. Bennet, as she stood at a window the next

morning, “if that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with

our dear Bingley! What can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always

coming here? I had no notion but he would go a-shooting, or something or

other, and not disturb us with his company. What shall we do with him?

Lizzy, you must walk out with him again, that he may not be in Bingley’s

way.”

Elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal; yet

was really vexed that her mother should be always giving him such an

epithet.

As soon as they entered, Bingley looked at her so expressively, and