and came down to Purfleet by the next train.

I found all the others at home. Mina was looking tired and pale, but she

made a gallant effort to be bright and cheerful, it wrung my heart to

think that I had had to keep anything from her and so caused her

inquietude. Thank God, this will be the last night of her looking on at

our conferences, and feeling the sting of our not showing our

confidence. It took all my courage to hold to the wise resolution of

keeping her out of our grim task. She seems somehow more reconciled; or

else the very subject seems to have become repugnant to her, for when

any accidental allusion is made she actually shudders. I am glad we

made our resolution in time, as with such a feeling as this, our growing

knowledge would be torture to her.

I could not tell the others of the day’s discovery till we were alone;

so after dinner--followed by a little music to save appearances even

amongst ourselves--I took Mina to her room and left her to go to bed.

The dear girl was more affectionate with me than ever, and clung to me

as though she would detain me; but there was much to be talked of and I

came away. Thank God, the ceasing of telling things has made no

difference between us.

When I came down again I found the others all gathered round the fire in

the study. In the train I had written my diary so far, and simply read

it off to them as the best means of letting them get abreast of my own

information; when I had finished Van Helsing said:--

“This has been a great day’s work, friend Jonathan. Doubtless we are on

the track of the missing boxes. If we find them all in that house, then

our work is near the end. But if there be some missing, we must search

until we find them. Then shall we make our final _coup_, and hunt the

wretch to his real death.” We all sat silent awhile and all at once Mr.

Morris spoke:--

“Say! how are we going to get into that house?”

“We got into the other,” answered Lord Godalming quickly.

“But, Art, this is different. We broke house at Carfax, but we had night

and a walled park to protect us. It will be a mighty different thing to

commit burglary in Piccadilly, either by day or night. I confess I don’t

see how we are going to get in unless that agency duck can find us a key

of some sort; perhaps we shall know when you get his letter in the

morning.” Lord Godalming’s brows contracted, and he stood up and walked

about the room. By-and-by he stopped and said, turning from one to

another of us:--

“Quincey’s head is level. This burglary business is getting serious; we

got off once all right; but we have now a rare job on hand--unless we

can find the Count’s key basket.”

As nothing could well be done before morning, and as it would be at

least advisable to wait till Lord Godalming should hear from Mitchell’s,

we decided not to take any active step before breakfast time. For a good

while we sat and smoked, discussing the matter in its various lights and

bearings; I took the opportunity of bringing this diary right up to the

moment. I am very sleepy and shall go to bed....

Just a line. Mina sleeps soundly and her breathing is regular. Her

forehead is puckered up into little wrinkles, as though she thinks even

in her sleep. She is still too pale, but does not look so haggard as she

did this morning. To-morrow will, I hope, mend all this; she will be

herself at home in Exeter. Oh, but I am sleepy!

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_1 October._--I am puzzled afresh about Renfield. His moods change so

rapidly that I find it difficult to keep touch of them, and as they

always mean something more than his own well-being, they form a more

than interesting study. This morning, when I went to see him after his

repulse of Van Helsing, his manner was that of a man commanding destiny.

He was, in fact, commanding destiny--subjectively. He did not really

care for any of the things of mere earth; he was in the clouds and

looked down on all the weaknesses and wants of us poor mortals. I

thought I would improve the occasion and learn something, so I asked

him:--

“What about the flies these times?” He smiled on me in quite a superior

sort of way--such a smile as would have become the face of Malvolio--as

he answered me:--

“The fly, my dear sir, has one striking feature; its wings are typical

of the aërial powers of the psychic faculties. The ancients did well