steadily until it topped the side of the pit.

The contrast between the swift and complex movements of these

contrivances and the inert panting clumsiness of their masters was

acute, and for days I had to tell myself repeatedly that these latter

were indeed the living of the two things.

The curate had possession of the slit when the first men were brought

to the pit. I was sitting below, huddled up, listening with all my

ears. He made a sudden movement backward, and I, fearful that we were

observed, crouched in a spasm of terror. He came sliding down the

rubbish and crept beside me in the darkness, inarticulate,

gesticulating, and for a moment I shared his panic. His gesture

suggested a resignation of the slit, and after a little while my

curiosity gave me courage, and I rose up, stepped across him, and

clambered up to it. At first I could see no reason for his frantic

behaviour. The twilight had now come, the stars were little and faint,

but the pit was illuminated by the flickering green fire that came from

the aluminium-making. The whole picture was a flickering scheme of

green gleams and shifting rusty black shadows, strangely trying to the

eyes. Over and through it all went the bats, heeding it not at all. The

sprawling Martians were no longer to be seen, the mound of blue-green

powder had risen to cover them from sight, and a fighting-machine, with

its legs contracted, crumpled, and abbreviated, stood across the corner

of the pit. And then, amid the clangour of the machinery, came a

drifting suspicion of human voices, that I entertained at first only to

dismiss.

I crouched, watching this fighting-machine closely, satisfying myself

now for the first time that the hood did indeed contain a Martian. As

the green flames lifted I could see the oily gleam of his integument

and the brightness of his eyes. And suddenly I heard a yell, and saw a

long tentacle reaching over the shoulder of the machine to the little

cage that hunched upon its back. Then something—something struggling

violently—was lifted high against the sky, a black, vague enigma

against the starlight; and as this black object came down again, I saw

by the green brightness that it was a man. For an instant he was

clearly visible. He was a stout, ruddy, middle-aged man, well dressed;

three days before, he must have been walking the world, a man of

considerable consequence. I could see his staring eyes and gleams of

light on his studs and watch chain. He vanished behind the mound, and

for a moment there was silence. And then began a shrieking and a

sustained and cheerful hooting from the Martians.

I slid down the rubbish, struggled to my feet, clapped my hands over my

ears, and bolted into the scullery. The curate, who had been crouching

silently with his arms over his head, looked up as I passed, cried out

quite loudly at my desertion of him, and came running after me.

That night, as we lurked in the scullery, balanced between our horror

and the terrible fascination this peeping had, although I felt an

urgent need of action I tried in vain to conceive some plan of escape;

but afterwards, during the second day, I was able to consider our

position with great clearness. The curate, I found, was quite incapable

of discussion; this new and culminating atrocity had robbed him of all

vestiges of reason or forethought. Practically he had already sunk to

the level of an animal. But as the saying goes, I gripped myself with

both hands. It grew upon my mind, once I could face the facts, that

terrible as our position was, there was as yet no justification for

absolute despair. Our chief chance lay in the possibility of the

Martians making the pit nothing more than a temporary encampment. Or

even if they kept it permanently, they might not consider it necessary

to guard it, and a chance of escape might be afforded us. I also

weighed very carefully the possibility of our digging a way out in a

direction away from the pit, but the chances of our emerging within

sight of some sentinel fighting-machine seemed at first too great. And

I should have had to do all the digging myself. The curate would

certainly have failed me.

It was on the third day, if my memory serves me right, that I saw the

lad killed. It was the only occasion on which I actually saw the

Martians feed. After that experience I avoided the hole in the wall for

the better part of a day. I went into the scullery, removed the door,

and spent some hours digging with my hatchet as silently as possible;