Morris was phlegmatic in the way of a man who accepts all things, and

accepts them in the spirit of cool bravery, with hazard of all he has to

stake. Not being able to smoke, he cut himself a good-sized plug of

tobacco and began to chew. As to Van Helsing, he was employed in a

definite way. First he took from his bag a mass of what looked like

thin, wafer-like biscuit, which was carefully rolled up in a white

napkin; next he took out a double-handful of some whitish stuff, like

dough or putty. He crumbled the wafer up fine and worked it into the

mass between his hands. This he then took, and rolling it into thin

strips, began to lay them into the crevices between the door and its

setting in the tomb. I was somewhat puzzled at this, and being close,

asked him what it was that he was doing. Arthur and Quincey drew near

also, as they too were curious. He answered:--

“I am closing the tomb, so that the Un-Dead may not enter.”

“And is that stuff you have put there going to do it?” asked Quincey.

“Great Scott! Is this a game?”

“It is.”

“What is that which you are using?” This time the question was by

Arthur. Van Helsing reverently lifted his hat as he answered:--

“The Host. I brought it from Amsterdam. I have an Indulgence.” It was an

answer that appalled the most sceptical of us, and we felt individually

that in the presence of such earnest purpose as the Professor’s, a

purpose which could thus use the to him most sacred of things, it was

impossible to distrust. In respectful silence we took the places

assigned to us close round the tomb, but hidden from the sight of any

one approaching. I pitied the others, especially Arthur. I had myself

been apprenticed by my former visits to this watching horror; and yet I,

who had up to an hour ago repudiated the proofs, felt my heart sink

within me. Never did tombs look so ghastly white; never did cypress, or

yew, or juniper so seem the embodiment of funereal gloom; never did tree

or grass wave or rustle so ominously; never did bough creak so

mysteriously; and never did the far-away howling of dogs send such a

woeful presage through the night.

There was a long spell of silence, a big, aching void, and then from the

Professor a keen “S-s-s-s!” He pointed; and far down the avenue of yews

we saw a white figure advance--a dim white figure, which held something

dark at its breast. The figure stopped, and at the moment a ray of

moonlight fell upon the masses of driving clouds and showed in startling

prominence a dark-haired woman, dressed in the cerements of the grave.

We could not see the face, for it was bent down over what we saw to be a

fair-haired child. There was a pause and a sharp little cry, such as a

child gives in sleep, or a dog as it lies before the fire and dreams. We

were starting forward, but the Professor’s warning hand, seen by us as

he stood behind a yew-tree, kept us back; and then as we looked the

white figure moved forwards again. It was now near enough for us to see

clearly, and the moonlight still held. My own heart grew cold as ice,

and I could hear the gasp of Arthur, as we recognised the features of

Lucy Westenra. Lucy Westenra, but yet how changed. The sweetness was

turned to adamantine, heartless cruelty, and the purity to voluptuous

wantonness. Van Helsing stepped out, and, obedient to his gesture, we

all advanced too; the four of us ranged in a line before the door of the

tomb. Van Helsing raised his lantern and drew the slide; by the

concentrated light that fell on Lucy’s face we could see that the lips

were crimson with fresh blood, and that the stream had trickled over her

chin and stained the purity of her lawn death-robe.

We shuddered with horror. I could see by the tremulous light that even

Van Helsing’s iron nerve had failed. Arthur was next to me, and if I had

not seized his arm and held him up, he would have fallen.

When Lucy--I call the thing that was before us Lucy because it bore her

shape--saw us she drew back with an angry snarl, such as a cat gives

when taken unawares; then her eyes ranged over us. Lucy’s eyes in form

and colour; but Lucy’s eyes unclean and full of hell-fire, instead of

the pure, gentle orbs we knew. At that moment the remnant of my love

passed into hate and loathing; had she then to be killed, I could have

done it with savage delight. As she looked, her eyes blazed with unholy

light, and the face became wreathed with a voluptuous smile. Oh, God,

how it made me shudder to see it! With a careless motion, she flung to