pluck your Sword out of his Pilcher by the eares? Make

hast, least mine be about your eares ere it be out

 Tib. I am for you

 Rom. Gentle Mercutio, put thy Rapier vp

 Mer. Come sir, your Passado

 Rom. Draw Benuolio, beat downe their weapons:

Gentlemen, for shame forbeare this outrage,

Tibalt, Mercutio, the Prince expresly hath

Forbidden bandying in Verona streetes.

Hold Tybalt, good Mercutio.

Exit Tybalt.

 Mer. I am hurt.

A plague a both the Houses, I am sped:

Is he gone and hath nothing?

 Ben. What art thou hurt?

 Mer. I, I, a scratch, a scratch, marry 'tis inough,

Where is my Page? go Villaine fetch a Surgeon

 Rom. Courage man, the hurt cannot be much

 Mer. No: 'tis not so deepe as a well, nor so wide as a

Church doore, but 'tis inough, 'twill serue: aske for me to

morrow, and you shall find me a graue man. I am pepper'd

I warrant, for this world: a plague a both your houses.

What, a Dog, a Rat, a Mouse, a Cat to scratch a man to

death: a Braggart, a Rogue, a Villaine, that fights by the

booke of Arithmeticke, why the deu'le came you betweene

vs? I was hurt vnder your arme

 Rom. I thought all for the best

 Mer. Helpe me into some house Benuolio,

Or I shall faint: a plague a both your houses.

They haue made wormesmeat of me,

I haue it, and soundly to your Houses.

Enter.

 Rom. This Gentleman the Princes neere Alie,

My very Friend hath got his mortall hurt

In my behalfe, my reputation stain'd

With Tibalts slaunder, Tybalt that an houre

Hath beene my Cozin: O Sweet Iuliet,

Thy Beauty hath made me Effeminate,

And in my temper softned Valours steele.

Enter Benuolio.

 Ben. O Romeo, Romeo, braue Mercutio's is dead,

That Gallant spirit hath aspir'd the Cloudes,

Which too vntimely here did scorne the earth

 Rom. This daies blacke Fate, on mo daies depend,

This but begins, the wo others must end.

Enter Tybalt.

 Ben. Here comes the Furious Tybalt backe againe

 Rom. He gon in triumph, and Mercutio slaine?

Away to heauen respectiue Lenitie,

And fire and Fury, be my conduct now.

Now Tybalt take the Villaine backe againe

That late thou gau'st me, for Mercutios soule

Is but a little way aboue our heads,

Staying for thine to keepe him companie:

Either thou or I, or both, must goe with him

 Tib. Thou wretched Boy that didst consort him here,

Shalt with him hence

 Rom. This shall determine that.

They fight. Tybalt falles.

 Ben. Romeo, away be gone:

The Citizens are vp, and Tybalt slaine,

Stand not amaz'd, the Prince will Doome thee death

If thou art taken: hence, be gone, away

 Rom. O! I am Fortunes foole

 Ben. Why dost thou stay?

Exit Romeo.

Enter Citizens.

 Citi. Which way ran he that kild Mercutio?

 Tibalt that Murtherer, which way ran he?

 Ben. There lies that Tybalt