within call. Thank everybody for being so good to me! Thank God!

Good-night, Arthur.

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_10 September._--I was conscious of the Professor’s hand on my head, and

started awake all in a second. That is one of the things that we learn

in an asylum, at any rate.

“And how is our patient?”

“Well, when I left her, or rather when she left me,” I answered.

“Come, let us see,” he said. And together we went into the room.

The blind was down, and I went over to raise it gently, whilst Van

Helsing stepped, with his soft, cat-like tread, over to the bed.

As I raised the blind, and the morning sunlight flooded the room, I

heard the Professor’s low hiss of inspiration, and knowing its rarity, a

deadly fear shot through my heart. As I passed over he moved back, and

his exclamation of horror, “Gott in Himmel!” needed no enforcement from

his agonised face. He raised his hand and pointed to the bed, and his

iron face was drawn and ashen white. I felt my knees begin to tremble.

There on the bed, seemingly in a swoon, lay poor Lucy, more horribly

white and wan-looking than ever. Even the lips were white, and the gums

seemed to have shrunken back from the teeth, as we sometimes see in a

corpse after a prolonged illness. Van Helsing raised his foot to stamp

in anger, but the instinct of his life and all the long years of habit

stood to him, and he put it down again softly. “Quick!” he said. “Bring

the brandy.” I flew to the dining-room, and returned with the decanter.

He wetted the poor white lips with it, and together we rubbed palm and

wrist and heart. He felt her heart, and after a few moments of agonising

suspense said:--

“It is not too late. It beats, though but feebly. All our work is

undone; we must begin again. There is no young Arthur here now; I have

to call on you yourself this time, friend John.” As he spoke, he was

dipping into his bag and producing the instruments for transfusion; I

had taken off my coat and rolled up my shirt-sleeve. There was no

possibility of an opiate just at present, and no need of one; and so,

without a moment’s delay, we began the operation. After a time--it did

not seem a short time either, for the draining away of one’s blood, no

matter how willingly it be given, is a terrible feeling--Van Helsing

held up a warning finger. “Do not stir,” he said, “but I fear that with

growing strength she may wake; and that would make danger, oh, so much

danger. But I shall precaution take. I shall give hypodermic injection

of morphia.” He proceeded then, swiftly and deftly, to carry out his

intent. The effect on Lucy was not bad, for the faint seemed to merge

subtly into the narcotic sleep. It was with a feeling of personal pride

that I could see a faint tinge of colour steal back into the pallid

cheeks and lips. No man knows, till he experiences it, what it is to

feel his own life-blood drawn away into the veins of the woman he loves.

The Professor watched me critically. “That will do,” he said. “Already?”

I remonstrated. “You took a great deal more from Art.” To which he

smiled a sad sort of smile as he replied:--

“He is her lover, her _fiancé_. You have work, much work, to do for her

and for others; and the present will suffice.”

When we stopped the operation, he attended to Lucy, whilst I applied

digital pressure to my own incision. I laid down, whilst I waited his

leisure to attend to me, for I felt faint and a little sick. By-and-by

he bound up my wound, and sent me downstairs to get a glass of wine for

myself. As I was leaving the room, he came after me, and half

whispered:--

“Mind, nothing must be said of this. If our young lover should turn up

unexpected, as before, no word to him. It would at once frighten him and

enjealous him, too. There must be none. So!”

When I came back he looked at me carefully, and then said:--

“You are not much the worse. Go into the room, and lie on your sofa, and

rest awhile; then have much breakfast, and come here to me.”