sore sick, it may be, yet not so sick but that an instructed and

watchful physician might well hope to cure you. But—I know not what

to say—the disease is what I seem to know, yet know it not.”

“You speak in riddles, learned Sir,” said the pale minister, glancing

aside out of the window.

“Then, to speak more plainly,” continued the physician, “and I crave

pardon, Sir,—should it seem to require pardon,—for this needful

plainness of my speech. Let me ask,—as your friend,—as one having

charge, under Providence, of your life and physical well-being,—hath

all the operation of this disorder been fairly laid open and recounted

to me?”

“How can you question it?” asked the minister. “Surely, it were

child’s play, to call in a physician, and then hide the sore!”

“You would tell me, then, that I know all?” said Roger Chillingworth,

deliberately, and fixing an eye, bright with intense and concentrated

intelligence, on the minister’s face. “Be it so! But, again! He to

whom only the outward and physical evil is laid open, knoweth,

oftentimes, but half the evil which he is called upon to cure. A

bodily disease, which we look upon as whole and entire within itself,

may, after all, be but a symptom of some ailment in the spiritual

part. Your pardon, once again, good Sir, if my speech give the shadow

of offence. You, Sir, of all men whom I have known, are he whose body

is the closest conjoined, and imbued, and identified, so to speak,

with the spirit whereof it is the instrument.”

“Then I need ask no further,” said the clergyman, somewhat hastily

rising from his chair. “You deal not, I take it, in medicine for the

soul!”

“Thus, a sickness,” continued Roger Chillingworth, going on, in an

unaltered tone, without heeding the interruption,—but standing up,

and confronting the emaciated and white-cheeked minister, with his

low, dark, and misshapen figure,—“a sickness, a sore place, if we may

so call it, in your spirit, hath immediately its appropriate

manifestation in your bodily frame. Would you, therefore, that your

physician heal the bodily evil? How may this be, unless you first lay

open to him the wound or trouble in your soul?”

“No!—not to thee!—not to an earthly physician!” cried Mr.

Dimmesdale, passionately, and turning his eyes, full and bright, and

with a kind of fierceness, on old Roger Chillingworth. “Not to thee!

But if it be the soul’s disease, then do I commit myself to the one

Physician of the soul! He, if it stand with his good pleasure, can

cure; or he can kill! Let him do with me as, in his justice and

wisdom, he shall see good. But who art thou, that meddlest in this

matter?—that dares thrust himself between the sufferer and his God?”

With a frantic gesture he rushed out of the room.

“It is as well to have made this step,” said Roger Chillingworth to

himself, looking after the minister with a grave smile. “There is

nothing lost. We shall be friends again anon. But see, now, how

passion takes hold upon this man, and hurrieth him out of himself! As

with one passion, so with another! He hath done a wild thing erenow,

this pious Master Dimmesdale, in the hot passion of his heart!”

[Illustration: The Leech and his Patient]

It proved not difficult to re-establish the intimacy of the two

companions, on the same footing and in the same degree as heretofore.

The young clergyman, after a few hours of privacy, was sensible that

the disorder of his nerves had hurried him into an unseemly outbreak

of temper, which there had been nothing in the physician’s words to

excuse or palliate. He marvelled, indeed, at the violence with which

he had thrust back the kind old man, when merely proffering the advice

which it was his duty to bestow, and which the minister himself had

expressly sought. With these remorseful feelings, he lost no time in

making the amplest apologies, and besought his friend still to

continue the care, which, if not successful in restoring him to

health, had, in all probability, been the means of prolonging his

feeble existence to that hour. Roger Chillingworth readily assented,

and went on with his medical supervision of the minister; doing his

best for him, in all good faith, but always quitting the patient’s

apartment, at the close of a professional interview, with a mysterious

and puzzled smile upon his lips. This expression was invisible in Mr.

Dimmesdale’s presence, but grew strongly evident as the physician

crossed the threshold.

“A rare case!” he muttered. “I must needs look deeper into it. A