feet, and never once turning his head towards the guilty platform.

When the light of the glimmering lantern had faded quite away, the

minister discovered, by the faintness which came over him, that the

last few moments had been a crisis of terrible anxiety; although his

mind had made an involuntary effort to relieve itself by a kind of

lurid playfulness.

Shortly afterwards, the like grisly sense of the humorous again stole

in among the solemn phantoms of his thought. He felt his limbs growing

stiff with the unaccustomed chilliness of the night, and doubted

whether he should be able to descend the steps of the scaffold.

Morning would break, and find him there. The neighborhood would begin

to rouse itself. The earliest riser, coming forth in the dim

twilight, would perceive a vaguely defined figure aloft on the place

of shame; and, half crazed betwixt alarm and curiosity, would go,

knocking from door to door, summoning all the people to behold the

ghost—as he needs must think it—of some defunct transgressor. A

dusky tumult would flap its wings from one house to another. Then—the

morning light still waxing stronger—old patriarchs would rise up in

great haste, each in his flannel gown, and matronly dames, without

pausing to put off their night-gear. The whole tribe of decorous

personages, who had never heretofore been seen with a single hair of

their heads awry, would start into public view, with the disorder of a

nightmare in their aspects. Old Governor Bellingham would come grimly

forth, with his King James’s ruff fastened askew; and Mistress

Hibbins, with some twigs of the forest clinging to her skirts, and

looking sourer than ever, as having hardly got a wink of sleep after

her night ride; and good Father Wilson, too, after spending half the

night at a death-bed, and liking ill to be disturbed, thus early, out

of his dreams about the glorified saints. Hither, likewise, would come

the elders and deacons of Mr. Dimmesdale’s church, and the young

virgins who so idolized their minister, and had made a shrine for him

in their white bosoms; which now, by the by, in their hurry and

confusion, they would scantly have given themselves time to cover with

their kerchiefs. All people, in a word, would come stumbling over

their thresholds, and turning up their amazed and horror-stricken

visages around the scaffold. Whom would they discern there, with the

red eastern light upon his brow? Whom, but the Reverend Arthur

Dimmesdale, half frozen to death, overwhelmed with shame, and standing

where Hester Prynne had stood!

Carried away by the grotesque horror of this picture, the minister,

unawares, and to his own infinite alarm, burst into a great peal of

laughter. It was immediately responded to by a light, airy, childish

laugh, in which, with a thrill of the heart,—but he knew not whether

of exquisite pain, or pleasure as acute,—he recognized the tones of

little Pearl.

“Pearl! Little Pearl!” cried he after a moment’s pause; then,

suppressing his voice,—“Hester! Hester Prynne! Are you there?”

“Yes; it is Hester Prynne!” she replied, in a tone of surprise; and

the minister heard her footsteps approaching from the sidewalk, along

which she had been passing. “It is I, and my little Pearl.”

“Whence come you, Hester?” asked the minister. “What sent you hither?”

“I have been watching at a death-bed,” answered Hester Prynne;—“at

Governor Winthrop’s death-bed, and have taken his measure for a robe,

and am now going homeward to my dwelling.”

“Come up hither, Hester, thou and little Pearl,” said the Reverend Mr.

Dimmesdale. “Ye have both been here before, but I was not with you.

Come up hither once again, and we will stand all three together!”

She silently ascended the steps, and stood on the platform, holding

little Pearl by the hand. The minister felt for the child’s other

hand, and took it. The moment that he did so, there came what seemed a

tumultuous rush of new life, other life than his own, pouring like a

torrent into his heart, and hurrying through all his veins, as if the

mother and the child were communicating their vital warmth to his

half-torpid system. The three formed an electric chain.

“Minister!” whispered little Pearl.

“What wouldst thou say, child?” asked Mr. Dimmesdale.

“Wilt thou stand here with mother and me, to-morrow noontide?”

inquired Pearl.

“Nay; not so, my little Pearl,” answered the minister; for, with the

new energy of the moment, all the dread of public exposure, that had

so long been the anguish of his life, had returned upon him; and he

was already trembling at the conjunction in which—with a strange joy,

nevertheless—he now found himself. “Not so, my child. I shall,

indeed, stand with thy mother and thee one other day, but not

to-morrow.”