affair of this kind, which, in later days, would have been referred to

no higher jurisdiction than that of the selectmen of the town, should

then have been a question publicly discussed, and on which statesmen

of eminence took sides. At that epoch of pristine simplicity, however,

matters of even slighter public interest, and of far less intrinsic

weight, than the welfare of Hester and her child, were strangely mixed

up with the deliberations of legislators and acts of state. The period

was hardly, if at all, earlier than that of our story, when a dispute

concerning the right of property in a pig not only caused a fierce and

bitter contest in the legislative body of the colony, but resulted in

an important modification of the framework itself of the legislature.

Full of concern, therefore,—but so conscious of her own right that it

seemed scarcely an unequal match between the public, on the one side,

and a lonely woman, backed by the sympathies of nature, on the

other,—Hester Prynne set forth from her solitary cottage. Little

Pearl, of course, was her companion. She was now of an age to run

lightly along by her mother’s side, and, constantly in motion, from

morn till sunset, could have accomplished a much longer journey than

that before her. Often, nevertheless, more from caprice than

necessity, she demanded to be taken up in arms; but was soon as

imperious to be set down again, and frisked onward before Hester on

the grassy pathway, with many a harmless trip and tumble. We have

spoken of Pearl’s rich and luxuriant beauty; a beauty that shone with

deep and vivid tints; a bright complexion, eyes possessing intensity

both of depth and glow, and hair already of a deep, glossy brown, and

which, in after years, would be nearly akin to black. There was fire

in her and throughout her; she seemed the unpremeditated offshoot of a

passionate moment. Her mother, in contriving the child’s garb, had

allowed the gorgeous tendencies of her imagination their full play;

arraying her in a crimson velvet tunic, of a peculiar cut, abundantly

embroidered with fantasies and flourishes of gold-thread. So much

strength of coloring, which must have given a wan and pallid aspect to

cheeks of a fainter bloom, was admirably adapted to Pearl’s beauty,

and made her the very brightest little jet of flame that ever danced

upon the earth.

But it was a remarkable attribute of this garb, and, indeed, of the

child’s whole appearance, that it irresistibly and inevitably reminded

the beholder of the token which Hester Prynne was doomed to wear upon

her bosom. It was the scarlet letter in another form; the scarlet

letter endowed with life! The mother herself—as if the red ignominy

were so deeply scorched into her brain that all her conceptions

assumed its form—had carefully wrought out the similitude; lavishing

many hours of morbid ingenuity, to create an analogy between the

object of her affection and the emblem of her guilt and torture. But,

in truth, Pearl was the one, as well as the other; and only in

consequence of that identity had Hester contrived so perfectly to

represent the scarlet letter in her appearance.

As the two wayfarers came within the precincts of the town, the

children of the Puritans looked up from their play,—or what passed

for play with those sombre little urchins,—and spake gravely one to

another:—

“Behold, verily, there is the woman of the scarlet letter; and, of a

truth, moreover, there is the likeness of the scarlet letter running

along by her side! Come, therefore, and let us fling mud at them!”

But Pearl, who was a dauntless child, after frowning, stamping her

foot, and shaking her little hand with a variety of threatening

gestures, suddenly made a rush at the knot of her enemies, and put

them all to flight. She resembled, in her fierce pursuit of them, an

infant pestilence,—the scarlet fever, or some such half-fledged angel

of judgment,—whose mission was to punish the sins of the rising

generation. She screamed and shouted, too, with a terrific volume of

sound, which, doubtless, caused the hearts of the fugitives to quake

within them. The victory accomplished, Pearl returned quietly to her

mother, and looked up, smiling, into her face.

Without further adventure, they reached the dwelling of Governor

Bellingham. This was a large wooden house, built in a fashion of which

there are specimens still extant in the streets of our older towns;

now moss-grown, crumbling to decay, and melancholy at heart with the

many sorrowful or joyful occurrences, remembered or forgotten, that

have happened, and passed away, within their dusky chambers. Then,

however, there was the freshness of the passing year on its exterior,

and the cheerfulness, gleaming forth from the sunny windows, of a

human habitation, into which death had never entered. It had, indeed,

a very cheery aspect; the walls being overspread with a kind of

stucco, in which fragments of broken glass were plentifully

intermixed; so that, when the sunshine fell aslant-wise over the front

of the edifice, it glittered and sparkled as if diamonds had been

flung against it by the double handful. The brilliancy might have

befitted Aladdin’s palace, rather than the mansion of a grave old