men had been drawn miles away from the cabin. And only that Tom and his

companions in the silent airship saw the men. Mr. Nestor might not

have been rescued for some further time.

His version of what had happened was correct. He had been mistaken for

Tom, and the spy with the gold tooth and his accomplice had waylaid

Mary's father, under the belief that it was Tom Swift with the plans of

the new silent motor. Mr. Nestor had been attacked while riding his

wheel in a lonely place, and had been carried off and kept in hiding, a

prisoner even after his identity became known.

"Well, this is a good night's work!" exclaimed Tom, when the two rogues

had been sent to jail and Mr. Nestor taken to the Bloise farmhouse, to

be refreshed before he went home. Word of his rescue was telephoned to

Mary and her mother, and it can be imagined how they regarded Tom Swift

for his part in the affair.

Little the worse for his experience, save that he was very nervous, Mr.

Nestor was taken home. He gave the details of his being waylaid, and

told how the men, for many days, were at their wits' ends to keep him

concealed when they found what a stir his disappearance had created.

The conspirators were well supplied with money, and in the automobile

they took their prisoner from one place to another. They had usurped

the use of the cabin and had lived there nearly a week in hiding,

leaving just before the first visit of Tom and Jackson. The rifled

wallet had been dropped by accident.

And it did not take much delving to disclose the fact that, Lydane,

"Gold Tooth," as he was called, and his crony, were spies in the pay of

the Universal Flying Machine Company. As the men went under several

aliases there is no need of giving their names. It is to be doubted if

they ever used their real ones--or if they had any.

Of course, there was quite a sensation when Mr. Nestor was found, and a

greater one when it became known the part the Universal Flying Machine

people had in his disappearance in mistake for Tom. The officials of

the company were indicted, and several of the minor ones sent to jail

but Gale and Ware escaped by remaining abroad.

It came out that they both knew of the acts of Lydane and his companion

in crime, and that the two officials realized the mistake that had been

made by their clumsy operatives. It was believed that this knowledge

led to the visit of Gale to Tom, the time the latter's suspicions were

first aroused. Gale made a clumsy attempt to clear his own skirts of

the conspiracy, but in vain, though he did escape his just punishment.

What had happened, in brief, was this. Gale and Ware, unable to secure

Tom's services, even by the offer of a large sum of money, had stooped

to the sending of spies to his shop, to get possession of information

about his silent motor. This was after Gale had, by accident, heard Tom

speaking of it to Mr. Damon.

But, thanks to Tom's vigilance, Bower was discovered. The man tripped

into the mud hole lost in the muck the plans Bower passed to him. They

were never recovered. Then Lydane tried again. He managed, through

bribery, to gain access to the hangar where the new silent machine was

kept, and, unable to get the silencer apart, tried to file it. In doing

so he weakened it so that it burst.

The attempt to waylay Tom, and so get the plans from him, had been

tried before this, only a mistake had been made, and Mr. Nestor was

caught instead. Finding out their error, Lydane and his companions did

not tell the Universal people of their mistake, though Gale and Ware

knew the attempt was to be made against Tom Swift.

Later, hearing that the young inventor was still at work on his

invention, Gale was much surprised, and paid his queer visit, in an

attempt to repudiate the actions of Lydane. At this time it was assumed

that Gale and his partner did not know that it was Mr. Nestor who had

been kidnapped by mistake or they might have insisted on his release.

As it was, Lydane had Mary's father, and was afraid to let him go,

though really their prisoner became a white elephant on the hands of

the conspirators and kidnappers.

And it was after all this was cleared up, and Mr. Nestor restored to

his family and friends, that one day, Tom Swift received another visit

from Mr. Terrill, the government agent.

"Well, Mr. Swift," was the genial greeting, "I have come to tell you

that the favorable report made by my friends and myself as to the

performance of your noiseless motor, has been accepted by the War

Department, and I have come to ask what your terms are. For how much

will you sell your patent to the United States?"

Tom Swift arose.

"The United States hasn't money enough to buy my patent of a noiseless

motor," he said.