his coming. I am glad he dines here on Tuesday. It will then be publicly

seen, that on both sides we meet only as common and indifferent

acquaintance.”

“Yes, very indifferent, indeed,” said Elizabeth, laughingly. “Oh, Jane!

take care.”

“My dear Lizzy, you cannot think me so weak as to be in danger now.”

“I think you are in very great danger of making him as much in love with

you as ever.”

They did not see the gentlemen again till Tuesday; and Mrs. Bennet, in

the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy schemes which the

good-humour and common politeness of Bingley, in half an hour’s visit,

had revived.

On Tuesday there was a large party assembled at Longbourn; and the two

who were most anxiously expected, to the credit of their punctuality as

sportsmen, were in very good time. When they repaired to the

dining-room, Elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether Bingley would take

the place which, in all their former parties, had belonged to him, by

her sister. Her prudent mother, occupied by the same ideas, forbore to

invite him to sit by herself. On entering the room, he seemed to

hesitate; but Jane happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was

decided. He placed himself by her.

Elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his friend. He

bore it with noble indifference; and she would have imagined that

Bingley had received his sanction to be happy, had she not seen his eyes

likewise turned towards Mr. Darcy, with an expression of half-laughing

alarm.

His behaviour to her sister was such during dinnertime as showed an

admiration of her, which, though more guarded than formerly, persuaded

Elizabeth, that, if left wholly to himself, Jane’s happiness, and his

own, would be speedily secured. Though she dared not depend upon the

consequence, she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour. It

gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast; for she was in

no cheerful humour. Mr. Darcy was almost as far from her as the table

could divide them. He was on one side of her mother. She knew how little

such a situation would give pleasure to either, or make either appear to

advantage. She was not near enough to hear any of their discourse; but

she could see how seldom they spoke to each other, and how formal and

cold was their manner whenever they did. Her mother’s ungraciousness

made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elizabeth’s mind;

and she would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell

him, that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of

the family.

She was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity of

bringing them together; that the whole of the visit would not pass away

without enabling them to enter into something more of conversation,

than the mere ceremonious salutation attending his entrance. Anxious and

uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing-room before the gentlemen

came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made her uncivil.

She looked forward to their entrance as the point on which all her

chance of pleasure for the evening must depend.

“If he does not come to me, _then_,” said she, “I shall give him up for

ever.”

The gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have

answered her hopes; but, alas! the ladies had crowded round the table,

where Miss Bennet was making tea, and Elizabeth pouring out the coffee,

in so close a confederacy, that there was not a single vacancy near her

which would admit of a chair. And on the gentlemen’s approaching, one of

the girls moved closer to her than ever, and said, in a whisper,--

“The men shan’t come and part us, I am determined. We want none of them;

do we?”

Darcy had walked away to another part of the room. She followed him with

her eyes, envied everyone to whom he spoke, had scarcely patience enough

to help anybody to coffee, and then was enraged against herself for

being so silly!

“A man who has once been refused! How could I ever be foolish enough to

expect a renewal of his love? Is there one among the sex who would not

protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman?

There is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings.”

She was a little revived, however, by his bringing back his coffee-cup

himself; and she seized the opportunity of saying,--

“Is your sister at Pemberley still?”

“Yes; she will remain there till Christmas.”

“And quite alone? Have all her friends left her?”

“Mrs. Annesley is with her. The others have been gone on to Scarborough