"You're sure it's safe, Tom?"

"Positive! Trot along now. I want to fix a wire and--"

"Oh, is anything broken?" and the girl, who had started away from the

aeroplane, turned back again.

"No, not broken. It's only a little auxiliary dingus I put on to make

it easier to read the barograph, but I think I'll go back to the old

system. Nothing to do with flying at all, except to tell how high up

one is."

"That's just what I don't care to know, Tom," said Mary Nestor, with a

smile. "If I could imagine I was sailing along only about ten feet in

the air I wouldn't mind so much."

"Flying at that height would be the worst sort of danger. You leave it

to me, Mary. I won't take you up above the clouds on this sky ride;

though, later, I'm sure you'll want to try that. This is only a little

flight. You've been promising long enough to take a trip with me, and

now I believe you're trying to back out."

"No, really I'm not, Tom! Only, at the last minute, the machine looks

so small and frail, and the sky is so--big--"

She glanced up and seemed to shiver just a trifle.

"Don't be thinking of those things, Mary!" laughed Tom Swift. "Trot

along and get ready. The motor never worked better, and we may break a

few speed records this morning. No traffic cops to stop us, either, as

there might be if we were in an auto."

"There you go, Mary!" exclaimed Tom, as if struck with a new thought.

"You've ridden in an auto with me many a time, and you never were a bit

afraid, though we were in more danger than we'll be this morning."

"Danger, Tom, in an auto? How?"

"Why, danger of a wheel collapsing as we were going full speed; or the

steering knuckle breaking and sending us into a tree; danger of running

into a stone wall or a ditch; danger of some one running into us, or of

us running into some one else. There isn't one of these dangers on a

sky ride."

"No," said Mary slowly. "But there's the danger of falling."

"One against twenty. That's the safety margin. And, if we do fall, it

will be like landing in a feather bed! There, don't wait any longer. Go

and get ready."

Mary sighed, and then, seeming to summon her nerve to her aid, she

smiled brightly, waved her hand to Tom, and hastened toward his home,

where Mrs. Baggert the matronly housekeeper, was waiting to help the

girl attire herself in a flying-suit of leather.

Mary Nestor, who had a very warm place in the heart of Tom Swift, had,

as he stated, some time since promised to take a trip in the air with

the young inventor. But she had kept putting it off, for one reason or

another, until Tom began to despair of ever getting her to accompany

him. To-day, however, when she had called to inquire about his father,

who had been slightly ill, Tom had, after the social visit, insisted on

the promise being kept.

He had his mechanic get out one of the safest, though a speedy, double

machine, and, with Mary to watch, Tom had taken a trial flight, just to

show her how easy it was. It was not the first time she had seen him

take to the air, but now she watched with different emotions, for she

was vitally interested.

Tom had sailed down from aloft, making a landing in the aviation field

he had constructed near his home, and then he had insisted that Mary

should keep her promise to take a sky ride with him.

"Don't be too long now!" called Tom to the girl, as she hurried toward

the house. "Never mind about your hair, or whether your hat's on

straight. You're going to wear a cap, anyhow, and tuck your hair up

under that. It's hot down here, but it will be cold up above; so tell

Mrs. Baggert to see that you're warmly dressed."

"All right," and gaily she waved her hand to him. Now that she had made

her decision, and was really going up, she was not half so frightened

as she had been in the contemplation of it.

As Tom climbed out of the machine, to give it a careful inspection,

though he was certain there was nothing wrong, an aged colored man

shuffled toward him.

"Yo'--yo'll be mighty careful ob Miss Nestor now, won't yo', Massa