would be about now at the Borgo Pass. God guide and help them! I am

afraid to think what may happen. If we could only go faster! but we

cannot; the engines are throbbing and doing their utmost. I wonder how

Dr. Seward and Mr. Morris are getting on. There seem to be endless

streams running down the mountains into this river, but as none of them

are very large--at present, at all events, though they are terrible

doubtless in winter and when the snow melts--the horsemen may not have

met much obstruction. I hope that before we get to Strasba we may see

them; for if by that time we have not overtaken the Count, it may be

necessary to take counsel together what to do next.

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_2 November._--Three days on the road. No news, and no time to write it

if there had been, for every moment is precious. We have had only the

rest needful for the horses; but we are both bearing it wonderfully.

Those adventurous days of ours are turning up useful. We must push on;

we shall never feel happy till we get the launch in sight again.

 * * * * *

_3 November._--We heard at Fundu that the launch had gone up the

Bistritza. I wish it wasn’t so cold. There are signs of snow coming; and

if it falls heavy it will stop us. In such case we must get a sledge and

go on, Russian fashion.

 * * * * *

_4 November._--To-day we heard of the launch having been detained by an

accident when trying to force a way up the rapids. The Slovak boats get

up all right, by aid of a rope and steering with knowledge. Some went up

only a few hours before. Godalming is an amateur fitter himself, and

evidently it was he who put the launch in trim again. Finally, they got

up the rapids all right, with local help, and are off on the chase

afresh. I fear that the boat is not any better for the accident; the

peasantry tell us that after she got upon smooth water again, she kept

stopping every now and again so long as she was in sight. We must push

on harder than ever; our help may be wanted soon.

_Mina Harker’s Journal._

_31 October._--Arrived at Veresti at noon. The Professor tells me that

this morning at dawn he could hardly hypnotise me at all, and that all I

could say was: “dark and quiet.” He is off now buying a carriage and

horses. He says that he will later on try to buy additional horses, so

that we may be able to change them on the way. We have something more

than 70 miles before us. The country is lovely, and most interesting; if

only we were under different conditions, how delightful it would be to

see it all. If Jonathan and I were driving through it alone what a

pleasure it would be. To stop and see people, and learn something of

their life, and to fill our minds and memories with all the colour and

picturesqueness of the whole wild, beautiful country and the quaint

people! But, alas!--

 * * * * *

_Later._--Dr. Van Helsing has returned. He has got the carriage and

horses; we are to have some dinner, and to start in an hour. The

landlady is putting us up a huge basket of provisions; it seems enough

for a company of soldiers. The Professor encourages her, and whispers to

me that it may be a week before we can get any good food again. He has

been shopping too, and has sent home such a wonderful lot of fur coats

and wraps, and all sorts of warm things. There will not be any chance of

our being cold.

 * * * * *

We shall soon be off. I am afraid to think what may happen to us. We are

truly in the hands of God. He alone knows what may be, and I pray Him,

with all the strength of my sad and humble soul, that He will watch over

my beloved husband; that whatever may happen, Jonathan may know that I

loved him and honoured him more than I can say, and that my latest and

truest thought will be always for him.

CHAPTER XXVII

MINA HARKER’S JOURNAL