up and say to Gregor’s mother “you’re doing so much sewing again

today!”, as if he did not know that he had been dozing—and then he

would go back to sleep again while mother and sister would exchange a

tired grin.

With a kind of stubbornness, Gregor’s father refused to take his

uniform off even at home; while his nightgown hung unused on its peg

Gregor’s father would slumber where he was, fully dressed, as if always

ready to serve and expecting to hear the voice of his superior even

here. The uniform had not been new to start with, but as a result of

this it slowly became even shabbier despite the efforts of Gregor’s

mother and sister to look after it. Gregor would often spend the whole

evening looking at all the stains on this coat, with its gold buttons

always kept polished and shiny, while the old man in it would sleep,

highly uncomfortable but peaceful.

As soon as it struck ten, Gregor’s mother would speak gently to his

father to wake him and try to persuade him to go to bed, as he couldn’t

sleep properly where he was and he really had to get his sleep if he

was to be up at six to get to work. But since he had been in work he

had become more obstinate and would always insist on staying longer at

the table, even though he regularly fell asleep and it was then harder

than ever to persuade him to exchange the chair for his bed. Then,

however much mother and sister would importune him with little

reproaches and warnings he would keep slowly shaking his head for a

quarter of an hour with his eyes closed and refusing to get up.

Gregor’s mother would tug at his sleeve, whisper endearments into his

ear, Gregor’s sister would leave her work to help her mother, but

nothing would have any effect on him. He would just sink deeper into

his chair. Only when the two women took him under the arms he would

abruptly open his eyes, look at them one after the other and say: “What

a life! This is what peace I get in my old age!” And supported by the

two women he would lift himself up carefully as if he were carrying the

greatest load himself, let the women take him to the door, send them

off and carry on by himself while Gregor’s mother would throw down her

needle and his sister her pen so that they could run after his father

and continue being of help to him.

Who, in this tired and overworked family, would have had time to give

more attention to Gregor than was absolutely necessary? The household

budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed; an enormous,

thick-boned charwoman with white hair that flapped around her head came

every morning and evening to do the heaviest work; everything else was

looked after by Gregor’s mother on top of the large amount of sewing

work she did. Gregor even learned, listening to the evening

conversation about what price they had hoped for, that several items of

jewellery belonging to the family had been sold, even though both

mother and sister had been very fond of wearing them at functions and

celebrations. But the loudest complaint was that although the flat was

much too big for their present circumstances, they could not move out

of it, there was no imaginable way of transferring Gregor to the new

address. He could see quite well, though, that there were more reasons

than consideration for him that made it difficult for them to move, it

would have been quite easy to transport him in any suitable crate with

a few air holes in it; the main thing holding the family back from

their decision to move was much more to do with their total despair,

and the thought that they had been struck with a misfortune unlike

anything experienced by anyone else they knew or were related to. They

carried out absolutely everything that the world expects from poor

people, Gregor’s father brought bank employees their breakfast, his

mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for strangers, his sister

ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers, but

they just did not have the strength to do any more. And the injury in

Gregor’s back began to hurt as much as when it was new. After they had

come back from taking his father to bed Gregor’s mother and sister

would now leave their work where it was and sit close together, cheek

to cheek; his mother would point to Gregor’s room and say “Close that

door, Grete”, and then, when he was in the dark again, they would sit

in the next room and their tears would mingle, or they would simply sit

there staring dry-eyed at the table.

Gregor hardly slept at all, either night or day. Sometimes he would

think of taking over the family’s affairs, just like before, the next

time the door was opened; he had long forgotten about his boss and the

chief clerk, but they would appear again in his thoughts, the salesmen

and the apprentices, that stupid teaboy, two or three friends from

other businesses, one of the chambermaids from a provincial hotel, a

tender memory that appeared and disappeared again, a cashier from a hat

shop for whom his attention had been serious but too slow,—all of them

appeared to him, mixed together with strangers and others he had

forgotten, but instead of helping him and his family they were all of

them inaccessible, and he was glad when they disappeared. Other times

he was not at all in the mood to look after his family, he was filled

with simple rage about the lack of attention he was shown, and although

he could think of nothing he would have wanted, he made plans of how he

could get into the pantry where he could take all the things he was