heavy consequences of them, in another state of being. At all events,

I, the present writer, as their representative, hereby take shame upon

myself for their sakes, and pray that any curse incurred by them—as I

have heard, and as the dreary and unprosperous condition of the race,

for many a long year back, would argue to exist—may be now and

henceforth removed.

Doubtless, however, either of these stern and black-browed Puritans

would have thought it quite a sufficient retribution for his sins,

that, after so long a lapse of years, the old trunk of the family

tree, with so much venerable moss upon it, should have borne, as its

topmost bough, an idler like myself. No aim, that I have ever

cherished, would they recognize as laudable; no success of mine—if my

life, beyond its domestic scope, had ever been brightened by

success—would they deem otherwise than worthless, if not positively

disgraceful. “What is he?” murmurs one gray shadow of my forefathers

to the other. “A writer of story-books! What kind of a business in

life—what mode of glorifying God, or being serviceable to mankind in

his day and generation—may that be? Why, the degenerate fellow might

as well have been a fiddler!” Such are the compliments bandied between

my great-grandsires and myself, across the gulf of time! And yet, let

them scorn me as they will, strong traits of their nature have

intertwined themselves with mine.

Planted deep, in the town’s earliest infancy and childhood, by these

two earnest and energetic men, the race has ever since subsisted here;

always, too, in respectability; never, so far as I have known,

disgraced by a single unworthy member; but seldom or never, on the

other hand, after the first two generations, performing any memorable

deed, or so much as putting forward a claim to public notice.

Gradually, they have sunk almost out of sight; as old houses, here and

there about the streets, get covered half-way to the eaves by the

accumulation of new soil. From father to son, for above a hundred

years, they followed the sea; a gray-headed shipmaster, in each

generation, retiring from the quarter-deck to the homestead, while a

boy of fourteen took the hereditary place before the mast, confronting

the salt spray and the gale, which had blustered against his sire and

grandsire. The boy, also, in due time, passed from the forecastle to

the cabin, spent a tempestuous manhood, and returned from his

world-wanderings, to grow old, and die, and mingle his dust with the

natal earth. This long connection of a family with one spot, as its

place of birth and burial, creates a kindred between the human being

and the locality, quite independent of any charm in the scenery or

moral circumstances that surround him. It is not love, but instinct.

The new inhabitant—who came himself from a foreign land, or whose

father or grandfather came—has little claim to be called a Salemite;

he has no conception of the oyster-like tenacity with which an old

settler, over whom his third century is creeping, clings to the spot

where his successive generations have been imbedded. It is no matter

that the place is joyless for him; that he is weary of the old wooden

houses, the mud and dust, the dead level of site and sentiment, the

chill east wind, and the chillest of social atmospheres;—all these,

and whatever faults besides he may see or imagine, are nothing to the

purpose. The spell survives, and just as powerfully as if the natal

spot were an earthly paradise. So has it been in my case. I felt it

almost as a destiny to make Salem my home; so that the mould of

features and cast of character which had all along been familiar

here,—ever, as one representative of the race lay down in his grave,

another assuming, as it were, his sentry-march along the main

street,—might still in my little day be seen and recognized in the

old town. Nevertheless, this very sentiment is an evidence that the

connection, which has become an unhealthy one, should at last be

severed. Human nature will not flourish, any more than a potato, if it

be planted and replanted, for too long a series of generations, in the

same worn-out soil. My children have had other birthplaces, and, so

far as their fortunes may be within my control, shall strike their

roots into unaccustomed earth.

On emerging from the Old Manse, it was chiefly this strange, indolent,

unjoyous attachment for my native town, that brought me to fill a

place in Uncle Sam’s brick edifice, when I might as well, or better,

have gone somewhere else. My doom was on me. It was not the first

time, nor the second, that I had gone away,—as it seemed,

permanently,—but yet returned, like the bad half-penny; or as if

Salem were for me the inevitable centre of the universe. So, one fine

morning, I ascended the flight of granite steps, with the President’s

commission in my pocket, and was introduced to the corps of gentlemen

who were to aid me in my weighty responsibility, as chief executive

officer of the Custom-House.

I doubt greatly—or, rather, I do not doubt at all—whether any public

functionary of the United States, either in the civil or military