justice and retribution, in endowing the child with this marked

propensity; but never, until now, had she bethought herself to ask,

whether, linked with that design, there might not likewise be a

purpose of mercy and beneficence. If little Pearl were entertained

with faith and trust, as a spirit messenger no less than an earthly

child, might it not be her errand to soothe away the sorrow that lay

cold in her mother’s heart, and converted it into a tomb?—and to help

her to overcome the passion, once so wild, and even yet neither dead

nor asleep, but only imprisoned within the same tomb-like heart?

Such were some of the thoughts that now stirred in Hester’s mind, with

as much vivacity of impression as if they had actually been whispered

into her ear. And there was little Pearl, all this while, holding her

mother’s hand in both her own, and turning her face upward, while she

put these searching questions, once, and again, and still a third

time.

“What does the letter mean, mother?—and why dost thou wear it?—and

why does the minister keep his hand over his heart?”

“What shall I say?” thought Hester to herself. “No! If this be the

price of the child’s sympathy, I cannot pay it.”

Then she spoke aloud.

“Silly Pearl,” said she, “what questions are these? There are many

things in this world that a child must not ask about. What know I of

the minister’s heart? And as for the scarlet letter, I wear it for the

sake of its gold-thread.”

In all the seven bygone years, Hester Prynne had never before been

false to the symbol on her bosom. It may be that it was the talisman

of a stern and severe, but yet a guardian spirit, who now forsook her;

as recognizing that, in spite of his strict watch over her heart, some

new evil had crept into it, or some old one had never been expelled.

As for little Pearl, the earnestness soon passed out of her face.

But the child did not see fit to let the matter drop. Two or three

times, as her mother and she went homeward, and as often at

supper-time, and while Hester was putting her to bed, and once after

she seemed to be fairly asleep, Pearl looked up, with mischief

gleaming in her black eyes.

“Mother,” said she, “what does the scarlet letter mean?”

And the next morning, the first indication the child gave of being

awake was by popping up her head from the pillow, and making that

other inquiry, which she had so unaccountably connected with her

investigations about the scarlet letter:—

“Mother!—Mother!—Why does the minister keep his hand over his

heart?”

“Hold thy tongue, naughty child!” answered her mother, with an

asperity that she had never permitted to herself before. “Do not tease

me; else I shall shut thee into the dark closet!”

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 XVI.

 A FOREST WALK.

Hester Prynne remained constant in her resolve to make known to Mr.

Dimmesdale, at whatever risk of present pain or ulterior consequences,

the true character of the man who had crept into his intimacy. For

several days, however, she vainly sought an opportunity of addressing

him in some of the meditative walks which she knew him to be in the

habit of taking, along the shores of the peninsula, or on the wooded

hills of the neighboring country. There would have been no scandal,

indeed, nor peril to the holy whiteness of the clergyman’s good fame,

had she visited him in his own study; where many a penitent, ere now,

had confessed sins of perhaps as deep a dye as the one betokened by

the scarlet letter. But, partly that she dreaded the secret or

undisguised interference of old Roger Chillingworth, and partly that

her conscious heart imputed suspicion where none could have been felt,

and partly that both the minister and she would need the whole wide

world to breathe in, while they talked together,—for all these

reasons, Hester never thought of meeting him in any narrower privacy

than beneath the open sky.

At last, while attending in a sick-chamber, whither the Reverend Mr.

Dimmesdale had been summoned to make a prayer, she learnt that he had

gone, the day before, to visit the Apostle Eliot, among his Indian

converts. He would probably return, by a certain hour, in the

afternoon of the morrow. Betimes, therefore, the next day, Hester took

little Pearl,—who was necessarily the companion of all her mother’s

expeditions, however inconvenient her presence,—and set forth.

The road, after the two wayfarers had crossed from the peninsula to

the mainland, was no other than a footpath. It straggled onward into

the mystery of the primeval forest. This hemmed it in so narrowly, and

stood so black and dense on either side, and disclosed such imperfect

glimpses of the sky above, that, to Hester’s mind, it imaged not amiss

the moral wilderness in which she had so long been wandering. The day

was chill and sombre. Overhead was a gray expanse of cloud, slightly