 3.Wat. Here is a Frier that trembles, sighes, and weepes

We tooke this Mattocke and this Spade from him,

As he was comming from this Church-yard side

 Con. A great suspition, stay the Frier too.

Enter the Prince.

 Prin. What misaduenture is so earely vp,

That calls our person from our mornings rest?

Enter Capulet and his Wife.

 Cap. What should it be that they so shrike abroad?

 Wife. O the people in the streete crie Romeo.

Some Iuliet, and some Paris, and all runne

With open outcry toward our Monument

 Pri. What feare is this which startles in your eares?

 Wat. Soueraigne, here lies the Countie Paris slaine,

And Romeo dead, and Iuliet dead before,

Warme and new kil'd

 Prin. Search,

Seeke, and know how, this foule murder comes

 Wat. Here is a Frier, and Slaughter'd Romeos man,

With Instruments vpon them fit to open

These dead mens Tombes

 Cap. O heauen!

O wife looke how our Daughter bleedes!

This Dagger hath mistaine, for loe his house

Is empty on the backe of Mountague,

And is misheathed in my Daughters bosome

 Wife. O me, this sight of death, is as a Bell

That warnes my old age to a Sepulcher.

Enter Mountague.

 Pri. Come Mountague, for thou art early vp

To see thy Sonne and Heire, now early downe

 Moun. Alas my liege, my wife is dead to night,

Griefe of my Sonnes exile hath stopt her breath:

What further woe conspires against my age?

 Prin. Looke: and thou shalt see

 Moun. O thou vntaught, what manners is in this,

To presse before thy Father to a graue?

 Prin. Seale vp the mouth of outrage for a while,

Till we can cleare these ambiguities,

And know their spring, their head, their true descent,

And then I will be generall of your woes,

And lead you euen to death? meane time forbeare,

And let mischance be slaue to patience,

Bring forth the parties of suspition

 Fri. I am the greatest, able to doe least,

Yet most suspected as the time and place

Doth make against me of this direfull murther:

And heere I stand both to impeach and purge

My selfe condemned, and my selfe excus'd

 Prin. Then say at once, what thou dost know in this?

 Fri. I will be briefe, for my short date of breath

Is not so long as is a tedious tale.

Romeo there dead, was husband to that Iuliet,

And she there dead, that's Romeos faithfull wife:

I married them; and their stolne marriage day

Was Tybalts Doomesday: whose vntimely death

Banish'd the new-made Bridegroome from this Citie:

For whom (and not for Tybalt) Iuliet pinde.

You, to remoue that siege of Greefe from her,

Betroth'd, and would haue married her perforce

To Countie Paris. Then comes she to me,

And (with wilde lookes) bid me deuise some meanes

To rid her from this second Marriage,

Or in my Cell there would she kill her selfe.

Then gaue I her (so Tutor'd by my Art)

A sleeping Potion, which so tooke effect

As I intended, for it wrought on her

The forme of death. Meane time, I writ to Romeo,

That he should hither come, as this dyre night,

To helpe to take her from her borrowed graue,

Being the time the Potions force should cease.

But he which bore my Letter, Frier Iohn,

Was stay'd by accident; and yesternight

Return'd my Letter backe. Then all alone,

At the prefixed houre of her waking,

Came I to take her from her Kindreds vault,