Puritanic gloom. They were native Englishmen, whose fathers had lived

in the sunny richness of the Elizabethan epoch; a time when the life

of England, viewed as one great mass, would appear to have been as

stately, magnificent, and joyous, as the world has ever witnessed. Had

they followed their hereditary taste, the New England settlers would

have illustrated all events of public importance by bonfires,

banquets, pageantries, and processions. Nor would it have been

impracticable, in the observance of majestic ceremonies, to combine

mirthful recreation with solemnity, and give, as it were, a grotesque

and brilliant embroidery to the great robe of state, which a nation,

at such festivals, puts on. There was some shadow of an attempt of

this kind in the mode of celebrating the day on which the political

year of the colony commenced. The dim reflection of a remembered

splendor, a colorless and manifold diluted repetition of what they had

beheld in proud old London,—we will not say at a royal coronation,

but at a Lord Mayor’s show,—might be traced in the customs which our

forefathers instituted, with reference to the annual installation of

magistrates. The fathers and founders of the commonwealth—the

statesman, the priest, and the soldier—deemed it a duty then to

assume the outward state and majesty, which, in accordance with

antique style, was looked upon as the proper garb of public or social

eminence. All came forth, to move in procession before the people’s

eye, and thus impart a needed dignity to the simple framework of a

government so newly constructed.

Then, too, the people were countenanced, if not encouraged, in

relaxing the severe and close application to their various modes of

rugged industry, which, at all other times, seemed of the same piece

and material with their religion. Here, it is true, were none of the

applicances which popular merriment would so readily have found in the

England of Elizabeth’s time, or that of James;—no rude shows of a

theatrical kind; no minstrel, with his harp and legendary ballad, nor

gleeman, with an ape dancing to his music; no juggler, with his tricks

of mimic witchcraft; no Merry Andrew, to stir up the multitude with

jests, perhaps hundreds of years old, but still effective, by their

appeals to the very broadest sources of mirthful sympathy. All such

professors of the several branches of jocularity would have been

sternly repressed, not only by the rigid discipline of law, but by the

general sentiment which gives law its vitality. Not the less, however,

the great, honest face of the people smiled, grimly, perhaps, but

widely too. Nor were sports wanting, such as the colonists had

witnessed, and shared in, long ago, at the country fairs and on the

village-greens of England; and which it was thought well to keep alive

on this new soil, for the sake of the courage and manliness that were

essential in them. Wrestling-matches, in the different fashions of

Cornwall and Devonshire, were seen here and there about the

market-place; in one corner, there was a friendly bout at

quarterstaff; and—what attracted most interest of all—on the

platform of the pillory, already so noted in our pages, two masters of

defence were commencing an exhibition with the buckler and broadsword.

But, much to the disappointment of the crowd, this latter business was

broken off by the interposition of the town beadle, who had no idea of

permitting the majesty of the law to be violated by such an abuse of

one of its consecrated places.

It may not be too much to affirm, on the whole, (the people being then

in the first stages of joyless deportment, and the offspring of sires

who had known how to be merry, in their day,) that they would compare

favorably, in point of holiday keeping, with their descendants, even

at so long an interval as ourselves. Their immediate posterity, the

generation next to the early emigrants, wore the blackest shade of

Puritanism, and so darkened the national visage with it, that all the

subsequent years have not sufficed to clear it up. We have yet to

learn again the forgotten art of gayety.

The picture of human life in the market-place, though its general tint

was the sad gray, brown, or black of the English emigrants, was yet

enlivened by some diversity of hue. A party of Indians—in their

savage finery of curiously embroidered deer-skin robes, wampum-belts,

red and yellow ochre, and feathers, and armed with the bow and arrow

and stone-headed spear—stood apart, with countenances of inflexible

gravity, beyond what even the Puritan aspect could attain. Nor, wild

as were these painted barbarians, were they the wildest feature of the

scene. This distinction could more justly be claimed by some

mariners,—a part of the crew of the vessel from the Spanish

Main,—who had come ashore to see the humors of Election Day. They

were rough-looking desperadoes, with sun-blackened faces, and an

immensity of beard; their wide, short trousers were confined about the

waist by belts, often clasped with a rough plate of gold, and

sustaining always a long knife, and, in some instances, a sword. From

beneath their broad-brimmed hats of palm-leaf gleamed eyes which, even

in good-nature and merriment, had a kind of animal ferocity. They