healed.”

Our visit to the hospital took more time than we had reckoned on, and

the sun had dipped before we came out. When Van Helsing saw how dark it

was, he said:--

“There is no hurry. It is more late than I thought. Come, let us seek

somewhere that we may eat, and then we shall go on our way.”

We dined at “Jack Straw’s Castle” along with a little crowd of

bicyclists and others who were genially noisy. About ten o’clock we

started from the inn. It was then very dark, and the scattered lamps

made the darkness greater when we were once outside their individual

radius. The Professor had evidently noted the road we were to go, for he

went on unhesitatingly; but, as for me, I was in quite a mixup as to

locality. As we went further, we met fewer and fewer people, till at

last we were somewhat surprised when we met even the patrol of horse

police going their usual suburban round. At last we reached the wall of

the churchyard, which we climbed over. With some little difficulty--for

it was very dark, and the whole place seemed so strange to us--we found

the Westenra tomb. The Professor took the key, opened the creaky door,

and standing back, politely, but quite unconsciously, motioned me to

precede him. There was a delicious irony in the offer, in the

courtliness of giving preference on such a ghastly occasion. My

companion followed me quickly, and cautiously drew the door to, after

carefully ascertaining that the lock was a falling, and not a spring,

one. In the latter case we should have been in a bad plight. Then he

fumbled in his bag, and taking out a matchbox and a piece of candle,

proceeded to make a light. The tomb in the day-time, and when wreathed

with fresh flowers, had looked grim and gruesome enough; but now, some

days afterwards, when the flowers hung lank and dead, their whites

turning to rust and their greens to browns; when the spider and the

beetle had resumed their accustomed dominance; when time-discoloured

stone, and dust-encrusted mortar, and rusty, dank iron, and tarnished

brass, and clouded silver-plating gave back the feeble glimmer of a

candle, the effect was more miserable and sordid than could have been

imagined. It conveyed irresistibly the idea that life--animal life--was

not the only thing which could pass away.

Van Helsing went about his work systematically. Holding his candle so

that he could read the coffin plates, and so holding it that the sperm

dropped in white patches which congealed as they touched the metal, he

made assurance of Lucy’s coffin. Another search in his bag, and he took

out a turnscrew.

“What are you going to do?” I asked.

“To open the coffin. You shall yet be convinced.” Straightway he began

taking out the screws, and finally lifted off the lid, showing the

casing of lead beneath. The sight was almost too much for me. It seemed

to be as much an affront to the dead as it would have been to have

stripped off her clothing in her sleep whilst living; I actually took

hold of his hand to stop him. He only said: “You shall see,” and again

fumbling in his bag, took out a tiny fret-saw. Striking the turnscrew

through the lead with a swift downward stab, which made me wince, he

made a small hole, which was, however, big enough to admit the point of

the saw. I had expected a rush of gas from the week-old corpse. We

doctors, who have had to study our dangers, have to become accustomed to

such things, and I drew back towards the door. But the Professor never

stopped for a moment; he sawed down a couple of feet along one side of

the lead coffin, and then across, and down the other side. Taking the

edge of the loose flange, he bent it back towards the foot of the

coffin, and holding up the candle into the aperture, motioned to me to

look.

I drew near and looked. The coffin was empty.

It was certainly a surprise to me, and gave me a considerable shock, but

Van Helsing was unmoved. He was now more sure than ever of his ground,

and so emboldened to proceed in his task. “Are you satisfied now, friend

John?” he asked.

I felt all the dogged argumentativeness of my nature awake within me as

I answered him:--

“I am satisfied that Lucy’s body is not in that coffin; but that only

proves one thing.”

“And what is that, friend John?”

“That it is not there.”