For the main road was a boiling stream of people, a torrent of human

beings rushing northward, one pressing on another. A great bank of

dust, white and luminous in the blaze of the sun, made everything

within twenty feet of the ground grey and indistinct and was

perpetually renewed by the hurrying feet of a dense crowd of horses and

of men and women on foot, and by the wheels of vehicles of every

description.

“Way!” my brother heard voices crying. “Make way!”

It was like riding into the smoke of a fire to approach the meeting

point of the lane and road; the crowd roared like a fire, and the dust

was hot and pungent. And, indeed, a little way up the road a villa was

burning and sending rolling masses of black smoke across the road to

add to the confusion.

Two men came past them. Then a dirty woman, carrying a heavy bundle and

weeping. A lost retriever dog, with hanging tongue, circled dubiously

round them, scared and wretched, and fled at my brother’s threat.

So much as they could see of the road Londonward between the houses to

the right was a tumultuous stream of dirty, hurrying people, pent in

between the villas on either side; the black heads, the crowded forms,

grew into distinctness as they rushed towards the corner, hurried past,

and merged their individuality again in a receding multitude that was

swallowed up at last in a cloud of dust.

“Go on! Go on!” cried the voices. “Way! Way!”

One man’s hands pressed on the back of another. My brother stood at the

pony’s head. Irresistibly attracted, he advanced slowly, pace by pace,

down the lane.

Edgware had been a scene of confusion, Chalk Farm a riotous tumult, but

this was a whole population in movement. It is hard to imagine that

host. It had no character of its own. The figures poured out past the

corner, and receded with their backs to the group in the lane. Along

the margin came those who were on foot threatened by the wheels,

stumbling in the ditches, blundering into one another.

The carts and carriages crowded close upon one another, making little

way for those swifter and more impatient vehicles that darted forward

every now and then when an opportunity showed itself of doing so,

sending the people scattering against the fences and gates of the

villas.

“Push on!” was the cry. “Push on! They are coming!”

In one cart stood a blind man in the uniform of the Salvation Army,

gesticulating with his crooked fingers and bawling, “Eternity!

Eternity!” His voice was hoarse and very loud so that my brother could

hear him long after he was lost to sight in the dust. Some of the

people who crowded in the carts whipped stupidly at their horses and

quarrelled with other drivers; some sat motionless, staring at nothing

with miserable eyes; some gnawed their hands with thirst, or lay

prostrate in the bottoms of their conveyances. The horses’ bits were

covered with foam, their eyes bloodshot.

There were cabs, carriages, shop-carts, waggons, beyond counting; a

mail cart, a road-cleaner’s cart marked “Vestry of St. Pancras,” a huge

timber waggon crowded with roughs. A brewer’s dray rumbled by with its

two near wheels splashed with fresh blood.

“Clear the way!” cried the voices. “Clear the way!”

“Eter-nity! Eter-nity!” came echoing down the road.

There were sad, haggard women tramping by, well dressed, with children

that cried and stumbled, their dainty clothes smothered in dust, their

weary faces smeared with tears. With many of these came men, sometimes

helpful, sometimes lowering and savage. Fighting side by side with them

pushed some weary street outcast in faded black rags, wide-eyed,

loud-voiced, and foul-mouthed. There were sturdy workmen thrusting

their way along, wretched, unkempt men, clothed like clerks or shopmen,

struggling spasmodically; a wounded soldier my brother noticed, men

dressed in the clothes of railway porters, one wretched creature in a

nightshirt with a coat thrown over it.

But varied as its composition was, certain things all that host had in

common. There were fear and pain on their faces, and fear behind them.

A tumult up the road, a quarrel for a place in a waggon, sent the whole

host of them quickening their pace; even a man so scared and broken

that his knees bent under him was galvanised for a moment into renewed

activity. The heat and dust had already been at work upon this

multitude. Their skins were dry, their lips black and cracked. They