 Iul. Blister'd be thy tongue

For such a wish, he was not borne to shame:

Vpon his brow shame is asham'd to sit;

For 'tis a throane where Honour may be Crown'd

Sole Monarch of the vniuersall earth:

O what a beast was I to chide him?

 Nur. Will you speake well of him,

That kil'd your Cozen?

 Iul. Shall I speake ill of him that is my husband?

Ah poore my Lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name,

When I thy three houres wife haue mangled it.

But wherefore Villaine did'st thou kill my Cozin?

That Villaine Cozin would haue kil'd my husband:

Backe foolish teares, backe to your natiue spring,

Your tributarie drops belong to woe,

Which you mistaking offer vp to ioy:

My husband liues that Tibalt would haue slaine,

And Tibalt dead that would haue slaine my husband:

All this is comfort, wherefore weepe I then?

Some words there was worser then Tybalts death

That murdered me, I would forget it feine,

But oh, it presses to my memory,

Like damned guilty deedes to sinners minds,

Tybalt is dead and Romeo banished:

That banished, that one word banished,

Hath slaine ten thousand Tibalts: Tibalts death

Was woe inough if it had ended there:

Or if sower woe delights in fellowship,

And needly will be rankt with other griefes,

Why followed not when she said Tibalts dead,

Thy Father or thy Mother, nay or both,

Which moderne lamentation might haue mou'd.

But which a rere-ward following Tybalts death

Romeo is banished to speake that word,

Is Father, Mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Iuliet,

All slaine, all dead: Romeo is banished,

There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,

In that words death, no words can that woe sound.

Where is my Father and my Mother Nurse?

 Nur. Weeping and wailing ouer Tybalts Coarse,

Will you go to them? I will bring you thither

 Iu. Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shal be spent

When theirs are drie for Romeo's banishment.

Take vp those Cordes, poore ropes you are beguil'd,

Both you and I for Romeo is exild:

He made you for a high-way to my bed,

But I a Maid, die Maiden widowed.

Come Cord, come Nurse, Ile to my wedding bed,

And death not Romeo, take my Maiden head

 Nur. Hie to your Chamber, Ile find Romeo

To comfort you, I wot well where he is:

Harke ye your Romeo will be heere at night,

Ile to him, he is hid at Lawrence Cell

 Iul. O find him, giue this Ring to my true Knight,

And bid him come, to take his last farewell.

Exit

Enter Frier and Romeo.

 Fri. Romeo come forth,

Come forth thou fearfull man,

Affliction is enamor'd of thy parts

And thou art wedded to calamitie,

 Rom. Father what newes?

What is the Princes Doome?

What sorrow craues acquaintance at my hand,

That I yet know not?

 Fri. Too familiar

Is my deare Sonne with such sowre Company

I bring thee tydings of the Princes Doome

 Rom. What lesse then Doomesday,

Is the Princes Doome?

 Fri. A gentler iudgement vanisht from his lips,

Not bodies death, but bodies banishment

 Rom. Ha, banishment? be mercifull, say death:

For exile hath more terror in his looke,

Much more then death: do not say banishment

 Fri. Here from Verona art thou banished:

Be patient, for the world is broad and wide

 Rom. There is no world without Verona walles,

But Purgatorie, Torture, hell it selfe:

Hence banished, is banisht from the world,

And worlds exile is death. Then banished,

Is death, mistearm'd, calling death banished,

Thou cut'st my head off with a golden Axe,

And smilest vpon the stroke that murders me