such eager interest. Pearl, therefore, so large were the attainments

of her three years’ lifetime, could have borne a fair examination in

the New England Primer, or the first column of the Westminster

Catechisms, although unacquainted with the outward form of either of

those celebrated works. But that perversity which all children have

more or less of, and of which little Pearl had a tenfold portion, now,

at the most inopportune moment, took thorough possession of her, and

closed her lips, or impelled her to speak words amiss. After putting

her finger in her mouth, with many ungracious refusals to answer good

Mr. Wilson’s question, the child finally announced that she had not

been made at all, but had been plucked by her mother off the bush of

wild roses that grew by the prison-door.

This fantasy was probably suggested by the near proximity of the

Governor’s red roses, as Pearl stood outside of the window; together

with her recollection of the prison rose-bush, which she had passed in

coming hither.

Old Roger Chillingworth, with a smile on his face, whispered something

in the young clergyman’s ear. Hester Prynne looked at the man of

skill, and even then, with her fate hanging in the balance, was

startled to perceive what a change had come over his features,—how

much uglier they were,—how his dark complexion seemed to have grown

duskier, and his figure more misshapen,—since the days when she had

familiarly known him. She met his eyes for an instant, but was

immediately constrained to give all her attention to the scene now

going forward.

“This is awful!” cried the Governor, slowly recovering from the

astonishment into which Pearl’s response had thrown him. “Here is a

child of three years old, and she cannot tell who made her! Without

question, she is equally in the dark as to her soul, its present

depravity, and future destiny! Methinks, gentlemen, we need inquire no

further.”

Hester caught hold of Pearl, and drew her forcibly into her arms,

confronting the old Puritan magistrate with almost a fierce

expression. Alone in the world, cast off by it, and with this sole

treasure to keep her heart alive, she felt that she possessed

indefeasible rights against the world, and was ready to defend them to

the death.

“God gave me the child!” cried she. “He gave her in requital of all

things else, which ye had taken from me. She is my happiness!—she is

my torture, none the less! Pearl keeps me here in life! Pearl punishes

me too! See ye not, she is the scarlet letter, only capable of being

loved, and so endowed with a million-fold the power of retribution for

my sin? Ye shall not take her! I will die first!”

[Illustration: “Look thou to it! I will not lose the child!”]

“My poor woman,” said the not unkind old minister, “the child shall be

well cared for!—far better than thou canst do it!”

“God gave her into my keeping,” repeated Hester Prynne, raising her

voice almost to a shriek. “I will not give her up!”—And here, by a

sudden impulse, she turned to the young clergyman, Mr. Dimmesdale, at

whom, up to this moment, she had seemed hardly so much as once to

direct her eyes.—“Speak thou for me!” cried she. “Thou wast my

pastor, and hadst charge of my soul, and knowest me better than these

men can. I will not lose the child! Speak for me! Thou knowest,—for

thou hast sympathies which these men lack!—thou knowest what is in my

heart, and what are a mother’s rights, and how much the stronger they

are, when that mother has but her child and the scarlet letter! Look

thou to it! I will not lose the child! Look to it!”

At this wild and singular appeal, which indicated that Hester Prynne’s

situation had provoked her to little less than madness, the young

minister at once came forward, pale, and holding his hand over his

heart, as was his custom whenever his peculiarly nervous temperament

was thrown into agitation. He looked now more care-worn and emaciated

than as we described him at the scene of Hester’s public ignominy; and

whether it were his failing health, or whatever the cause might be,

his large dark eyes had a world of pain in their troubled and

melancholy depth.

“There is truth in what she says,” began the minister, with a voice

sweet, tremulous, but powerful, insomuch that the hall re-echoed, and

the hollow armor rang with it,—“truth in what Hester says, and in the

feeling which inspires her! God gave her the child, and gave her, too,

an instinctive knowledge of its nature and requirements,—both