but when I had made a hole about a couple of feet deep the loose earth

collapsed noisily, and I did not dare continue. I lost heart, and lay

down on the scullery floor for a long time, having no spirit even to

move. And after that I abandoned altogether the idea of escaping by

excavation.

It says much for the impression the Martians had made upon me that at

first I entertained little or no hope of our escape being brought about

by their overthrow through any human effort. But on the fourth or fifth

night I heard a sound like heavy guns.

It was very late in the night, and the moon was shining brightly. The

Martians had taken away the excavating-machine, and, save for a

fighting-machine that stood in the remoter bank of the pit and a

handling-machine that was buried out of my sight in a corner of the pit

immediately beneath my peephole, the place was deserted by them. Except

for the pale glow from the handling-machine and the bars and patches of

white moonlight the pit was in darkness, and, except for the clinking

of the handling-machine, quite still. That night was a beautiful

serenity; save for one planet, the moon seemed to have the sky to

herself. I heard a dog howling, and that familiar sound it was that

made me listen. Then I heard quite distinctly a booming exactly like

the sound of great guns. Six distinct reports I counted, and after a

long interval six again. And that was all.

IV.

THE DEATH OF THE CURATE.

It was on the sixth day of our imprisonment that I peeped for the last

time, and presently found myself alone. Instead of keeping close to me

and trying to oust me from the slit, the curate had gone back into the

scullery. I was struck by a sudden thought. I went back quickly and

quietly into the scullery. In the darkness I heard the curate drinking.

I snatched in the darkness, and my fingers caught a bottle of burgundy.

For a few minutes there was a tussle. The bottle struck the floor and

broke, and I desisted and rose. We stood panting and threatening each

other. In the end I planted myself between him and the food, and told

him of my determination to begin a discipline. I divided the food in

the pantry, into rations to last us ten days. I would not let him eat

any more that day. In the afternoon he made a feeble effort to get at

the food. I had been dozing, but in an instant I was awake. All day and

all night we sat face to face, I weary but resolute, and he weeping and

complaining of his immediate hunger. It was, I know, a night and a day,

but to me it seemed—it seems now—an interminable length of time.

And so our widened incompatibility ended at last in open conflict. For

two vast days we struggled in undertones and wrestling contests. There

were times when I beat and kicked him madly, times when I cajoled and

persuaded him, and once I tried to bribe him with the last bottle of

burgundy, for there was a rain-water pump from which I could get water.

But neither force nor kindness availed; he was indeed beyond reason. He

would neither desist from his attacks on the food nor from his noisy

babbling to himself. The rudimentary precautions to keep our

imprisonment endurable he would not observe. Slowly I began to realise

the complete overthrow of his intelligence, to perceive that my sole

companion in this close and sickly darkness was a man insane.

From certain vague memories I am inclined to think my own mind wandered

at times. I had strange and hideous dreams whenever I slept. It sounds

paradoxical, but I am inclined to think that the weakness and insanity

of the curate warned me, braced me, and kept me a sane man.

On the eighth day he began to talk aloud instead of whispering, and

nothing I could do would moderate his speech.

“It is just, O God!” he would say, over and over again. “It is just. On

me and mine be the punishment laid. We have sinned, we have fallen

short. There was poverty, sorrow; the poor were trodden in the dust,

and I held my peace. I preached acceptable folly—my God, what

folly!—when I should have stood up, though I died for it, and called