_19 August._--Strange and sudden change in Renfield last night. About

eight o’clock he began to get excited and sniff about as a dog does when

setting. The attendant was struck by his manner, and knowing my interest

in him, encouraged him to talk. He is usually respectful to the

attendant and at times servile; but to-night, the man tells me, he was

quite haughty. Would not condescend to talk with him at all. All he

would say was:--

 “I don’t want to talk to you: you don’t count now; the Master is at

 hand.”

The attendant thinks it is some sudden form of religious mania which has

seized him. If so, we must look out for squalls, for a strong man with

homicidal and religious mania at once might be dangerous. The

combination is a dreadful one. At nine o’clock I visited him myself. His

attitude to me was the same as that to the attendant; in his sublime

self-feeling the difference between myself and attendant seemed to him

as nothing. It looks like religious mania, and he will soon think that

he himself is God. These infinitesimal distinctions between man and man

are too paltry for an Omnipotent Being. How these madmen give themselves

away! The real God taketh heed lest a sparrow fall; but the God created

from human vanity sees no difference between an eagle and a sparrow. Oh,

if men only knew!

For half an hour or more Renfield kept getting excited in greater and

greater degree. I did not pretend to be watching him, but I kept strict

observation all the same. All at once that shifty look came into his

eyes which we always see when a madman has seized an idea, and with it

the shifty movement of the head and back which asylum attendants come to

know so well. He became quite quiet, and went and sat on the edge of his

bed resignedly, and looked into space with lack-lustre eyes. I thought I

would find out if his apathy were real or only assumed, and tried to

lead him to talk of his pets, a theme which had never failed to excite

his attention. At first he made no reply, but at length said testily:--

“Bother them all! I don’t care a pin about them.”

“What?” I said. “You don’t mean to tell me you don’t care about

spiders?” (Spiders at present are his hobby and the note-book is filling

up with columns of small figures.) To this he answered enigmatically:--

“The bride-maidens rejoice the eyes that wait the coming of the bride;

but when the bride draweth nigh, then the maidens shine not to the eyes

that are filled.”

He would not explain himself, but remained obstinately seated on his bed

all the time I remained with him.

I am weary to-night and low in spirits. I cannot but think of Lucy, and

how different things might have been. If I don’t sleep at once, chloral,

the modern Morpheus--C_{2}HCl_{3}O. H_{2}O! I must be careful not to let

it grow into a habit. No, I shall take none to-night! I have thought of

Lucy, and I shall not dishonour her by mixing the two. If need be,

to-night shall be sleepless....

 * * * * *

_Later._--Glad I made the resolution; gladder that I kept to it. I had

lain tossing about, and had heard the clock strike only twice, when the

night-watchman came to me, sent up from the ward, to say that Renfield

had escaped. I threw on my clothes and ran down at once; my patient is

too dangerous a person to be roaming about. Those ideas of his might

work out dangerously with strangers. The attendant was waiting for me.

He said he had seen him not ten minutes before, seemingly asleep in his

bed, when he had looked through the observation-trap in the door. His

attention was called by the sound of the window being wrenched out. He

ran back and saw his feet disappear through the window, and had at once

sent up for me. He was only in his night-gear, and cannot be far off.

The attendant thought it would be more useful to watch where he should

go than to follow him, as he might lose sight of him whilst getting out

of the building by the door. He is a bulky man, and couldn’t get through

the window. I am thin, so, with his aid, I got out, but feet foremost,