line, has ever had such a patriarchal body of veterans under his

orders as myself. The whereabouts of the Oldest Inhabitant was at once

settled, when I looked at them. For upwards of twenty years before

this epoch, the independent position of the Collector had kept the

Salem Custom-House out of the whirlpool of political vicissitude,

which makes the tenure of office generally so fragile. A soldier,—New

England’s most distinguished soldier,—he stood firmly on the pedestal

of his gallant services; and, himself secure in the wise liberality of

the successive administrations through which he had held office, he

had been the safety of his subordinates in many an hour of danger and

heart-quake. General Miller was radically conservative; a man over

whose kindly nature habit had no slight influence; attaching himself

strongly to familiar faces, and with difficulty moved to change, even

when change might have brought unquestionable improvement. Thus, on

taking charge of my department, I found few but aged men. They were

ancient sea-captains, for the most part, who, after being tost on

every sea, and standing up sturdily against life’s tempestuous blasts,

had finally drifted into this quiet nook; where, with little to

disturb them, except the periodical terrors of a Presidential

election, they one and all acquired a new lease of existence. Though

by no means less liable than their fellow-men to age and infirmity,

they had evidently some talisman or other that kept death at bay. Two

or three of their number, as I was assured, being gouty and rheumatic,

or perhaps bedridden, never dreamed of making their appearance at the

Custom-House, during a large part of the year; but, after a torpid

winter, would creep out into the warm sunshine of May or June, go

lazily about what they termed duty, and, at their own leisure and

convenience, betake themselves to bed again. I must plead guilty to

the charge of abbreviating the official breath of more than one of

these venerable servants of the republic. They were allowed, on my

representation, to rest from their arduous labors, and soon

afterwards—as if their sole principle of life had been zeal for their

country’s service, as I verily believe it was—withdrew to a better

world. It is a pious consolation to me, that, through my interference,

a sufficient space was allowed them for repentance of the evil and

corrupt practices into which, as a matter of course, every

Custom-House officer must be supposed to fall. Neither the front nor

the back entrance of the Custom-House opens on the road to Paradise.

The greater part of my officers were Whigs. It was well for their

venerable brotherhood that the new Surveyor was not a politician, and

though a faithful Democrat in principle, neither received nor held his

office with any reference to political services. Had it been

otherwise,—had an active politician been put into this influential

post, to assume the easy task of making head against a Whig Collector,

whose infirmities withheld him from the personal administration of his

office,—hardly a man of the old corps would have drawn the breath of

official life, within a month after the exterminating angel had come

up the Custom-House steps. According to the received code in such

matters, it would have been nothing short of duty, in a politician, to

bring every one of those white heads under the axe of the guillotine.

It was plain enough to discern, that the old fellows dreaded some such

discourtesy at my hands. It pained, and at the same time amused me, to

behold the terrors that attended my advent; to see a furrowed cheek,

weather-beaten by half a century of storm, turn ashy pale at the

glance of so harmless an individual as myself; to detect, as one or

another addressed me, the tremor of a voice, which, in long-past days,

had been wont to bellow through a speaking-trumpet, hoarsely enough to

frighten Boreas himself to silence. They knew, these excellent old

persons, that, by all established rule,—and, as regarded some of

them, weighed by their own lack of efficiency for business,—they

ought to have given place to younger men, more orthodox in politics,

and altogether fitter than themselves to serve our common Uncle. I

knew it too, but could never quite find in my heart to act upon the

knowledge. Much and deservedly to my own discredit, therefore, and

considerably to the detriment of my official conscience, they

continued, during my incumbency, to creep about the wharves, and

loiter up and down the Custom-House steps. They spent a good deal of

time, also, asleep in their accustomed corners, with their chairs

tilted back against the wall; awaking, however, once or twice in a

forenoon, to bore one another with the several thousandth repetition

of old sea-stories, and mouldy jokes, that had grown to be passwords

and countersigns among them.

The discovery was soon made, I imagine, that the new Surveyor had no

great harm in him. So, with lightsome hearts, and the happy

consciousness of being usefully employed,—in their own behalf, at

least, if not for our beloved country,—these good old gentlemen went

through the various formalities of office. Sagaciously, under their