wasn’t broken to harness at all yet. Then he said that he had spoken in

a light manner, and he hoped that if he had made a mistake in doing so

on so grave, so momentous, an occasion for him, I would forgive him. He

really did look serious when he was saying it, and I couldn’t help

feeling a bit serious too--I know, Mina, you will think me a horrid

flirt--though I couldn’t help feeling a sort of exultation that he was

number two in one day. And then, my dear, before I could say a word he

began pouring out a perfect torrent of love-making, laying his very

heart and soul at my feet. He looked so earnest over it that I shall

never again think that a man must be playful always, and never earnest,

because he is merry at times. I suppose he saw something in my face

which checked him, for he suddenly stopped, and said with a sort of

manly fervour that I could have loved him for if I had been free:--

“‘Lucy, you are an honest-hearted girl, I know. I should not be here

speaking to you as I am now if I did not believe you clean grit, right

through to the very depths of your soul. Tell me, like one good fellow

to another, is there any one else that you care for? And if there is

I’ll never trouble you a hair’s breadth again, but will be, if you will

let me, a very faithful friend.’

“My dear Mina, why are men so noble when we women are so little worthy

of them? Here was I almost making fun of this great-hearted, true

gentleman. I burst into tears--I am afraid, my dear, you will think

this a very sloppy letter in more ways than one--and I really felt very

badly. Why can’t they let a girl marry three men, or as many as want

her, and save all this trouble? But this is heresy, and I must not say

it. I am glad to say that, though I was crying, I was able to look into

Mr. Morris’s brave eyes, and I told him out straight:--

“‘Yes, there is some one I love, though he has not told me yet that he

even loves me.’ I was right to speak to him so frankly, for quite a

light came into his face, and he put out both his hands and took mine--I

think I put them into his--and said in a hearty way:--

“‘That’s my brave girl. It’s better worth being late for a chance of

winning you than being in time for any other girl in the world. Don’t

cry, my dear. If it’s for me, I’m a hard nut to crack; and I take it

standing up. If that other fellow doesn’t know his happiness, well, he’d

better look for it soon, or he’ll have to deal with me. Little girl,

your honesty and pluck have made me a friend, and that’s rarer than a

lover; it’s more unselfish anyhow. My dear, I’m going to have a pretty

lonely walk between this and Kingdom Come. Won’t you give me one kiss?

It’ll be something to keep off the darkness now and then. You can, you

know, if you like, for that other good fellow--he must be a good fellow,

my dear, and a fine fellow, or you could not love him--hasn’t spoken

yet.’ That quite won me, Mina, for it _was_ brave and sweet of him, and

noble, too, to a rival--wasn’t it?--and he so sad; so I leant over and

kissed him. He stood up with my two hands in his, and as he looked down

into my face--I am afraid I was blushing very much--he said:--

“‘Little girl, I hold your hand, and you’ve kissed me, and if these

things don’t make us friends nothing ever will. Thank you for your sweet

honesty to me, and good-bye.’ He wrung my hand, and taking up his hat,

went straight out of the room without looking back, without a tear or a

quiver or a pause; and I am crying like a baby. Oh, why must a man like

that be made unhappy when there are lots of girls about who would

worship the very ground he trod on? I know I would if I were free--only

I don’t want to be free. My dear, this quite upset me, and I feel I

cannot write of happiness just at once, after telling you of it; and I

don’t wish to tell of the number three until it can be all happy.

“Ever your loving

“LUCY.

“P.S.--Oh, about number Three--I needn’t tell you of number Three, need

I? Besides, it was all so confused; it seemed only a moment from his

coming into the room till both his arms were round me, and he was

kissing me. I am very, very happy, and I don’t know what I have done to

deserve it. I must only try in the future to show that I am not

ungrateful to God for all His goodness to me in sending to me such a

lover, such a husband, and such a friend.

“Good-bye.”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

(Kept in phonograph)