back a moment."

Tom did so, and the eccentric man, with another exclamation, this time

of satisfaction, reached down and picked something up from the dusty

road.

"It's a watch!" he exclaimed. "A gold watch! And it's been stepped on,

evidently, or run over by an auto. Not much damaged, but the case is a

bit bent and scratched. It's stopped, too!" he added as he held it to

his ear.

"What time does it show?" asked Tom.

"Eight forty-seven," answered Mr. Damon, as he consulted the dial.

"Why, Tom, that was just about when we heard the cries for help!"

"Yes, it must have been. Let me see that watch."

No sooner had the young inventor taken the timepiece into his hands

than he, too, uttered a cry of amazement.

"Do you recognize it?" asked Mr. Damon, in great excitement.

"It's Mr. Nestor's watch!" cried Tom. "He must have fallen here, and

been hurt. It was Mr. Nestor who cried for help, and who was taken away

by the autoists. They've probably taken him to some hospital. There's

been an accident all right."

Tom and Mr. Damon were of one mind now in thinking that Mr. Nestor had

met with some mishap on the road--an automobile accident most

likely--and that he was the person who had called for help.

"If they had only answered when we hallooed at them," said Tom, "we

wouldn't be in all this stew now. We could have told the strangers who

came to his aid who he was, and we might even have taken him to the

hospital in the airship."

"Well, it's too late to think of that now," returned Mr. Damon. "We

had better get into communication with him as soon as we can, and then

send word to his wife and daughter. I hope he isn't badly hurt."

Tom hoped so, too, with all his heart.

There was nothing to do but to get back in the runabout and make all

speed for the nearest telephone, and Tom Swift lost little time in

doing this. They found a drug store which was open a little later than

usual, and at once Tom went into the booth and called up the Shopton

hospital. He was well known there, as he and his father were liberal

supporters of the institution, which was a private affair. Many of

Tom's men were treated at the dispensary, and, as accidents were of

more or less frequent occurrence at the works, the young inventor had

frequent occasions to call up the place.

"Mr. Nestor would ask to be taken there, as it's nearest his home--that

is, if he was able to speak," Tom said to Mr. Damon, who agreed with

him. There was a little delay in getting the hospital on the wire, but

when Tom had it, and was talking to the superintendent, he was rather

surprised, to tell the truth, to be told that Mr. Nestor had not been

brought in.

"We haven't had any accident cases all day, nor to-night, Mr. Swift,"

the superintendent reported. "Was this some one special you were

inquiring about?"

For Tom, determining not to give Mr. Nestor's name, except as a last

resort, had merely inquired whether any recent accident cases had been

brought in.

"I'll let you know later, Mr. Millard," he told the superintendent, not

exactly answering the question. He hung up the receiver, and, opening

the door of the booth, said to Mr. Damon: "He isn't there."

"Then try Waterfield," was the suggestion; and Tom did so, though he

could not imagine why an injured man, such as Mr. Nestor might prove to

be, should be taken as far as Waterfield, when the hospital at Shopton

was nearer.

"Unless," he told Mr. Damon, "the people which ran down Mary's father

didn't know about our hospital."

The reply from the institution in Mr. Damon's home town was just as

discouraging as had been the answer from Shopton. At first, when Tom

inquired, the head nurse had said there was an accident case at that

moment being brought in. Tom was all excitement until she went to

inquire the name and circumstances, and then he learned that it was the

case of a little boy who had fallen downstairs at his home and broken a

leg. There was no record of any one answering the description of Mr.

Nestor having been brought in that evening.

"Hum! This is getting to be mysterious," mused Tom, as he came out of

the booth. "What shall we do--go back and tell Mrs. Nestor and Mary, or