taking any legal action against us because of the action of that man

Lydane, I wish to state that he had absolutely no authority to--"

"Excuse me!" broke in Tom, "but by Lydane do you mean the man who also

posed as Bower, the spy?"

"No, I do not. Though I regret to say that Bower once worked for us.

He, too, had no authority to come here and get a position. He was still

in our service when he did that."

"So I have suspected," said Tom. "I realize now that he was a spy, who

came here to try to find out for you some of my secrets."

"Not with my permission!" exclaimed Mr. Gale. "I was against that from

the first and I came to tell you so. But Bower really did you no harm."

"No, he didn't get the chance!" chuckled Tom. "Nor did that other

spy--the one with the gold tooth. I wonder how he liked our mud hole?"

"He was Lydane," said Mr. Gale. "It is about him I came."

"You might have saved yourself the trouble," returned Tom. "I don't

wish to discuss him."

"But I wish to make sure," said Mr. Gale, "that what he has done will

not come back on us. We repudiate him entirely. His methods we can not

countenance. He is too daring--"

"Oh, don't worry!" interrupted Tom. "He hasn't done anything to me--he

didn't get the chance, as I guess he's told you. You needn't apologize

on his account. He did me no harm, and--"

"But I understood from him that--"

"Now I don't want to seem impolite!" broke in Tom, "nor do I want to

take pattern after some of your company's acts, if not your own. But I

am very busy. I have an important test to make for the government, and

my time is fully occupied. I am afraid I shall have to bid you

good-morning and--"

"But won't you give me a chance to--" began the president.

"Now, the less we discuss this matter the better!" interrupted Tom.

"Lydane, as you call the man with the gold tooth didn't really do

anything to me nor any great harm to any of my possessions, as far as I

can learn. His career is a closed book--a book with muddy covers!" and

the young inventor laughed.

"Oh, well, if you look at it that way, there is nothing further for me

to say," said Mr. Gale stiffly. "I understood-- But hasn't my partner,

Mr. Ware, seen you?" he asked Tom quickly.

"No. And I don't care to see him."

"Oh, then that accounts for it," was the quick answer. "Well, if you

regard the matter as closed I suppose we should also. We are not to

blame for what Lydane does when he is no longer in our employ, and we

repudiate anything he may do, or may have done."

This struck Tom, afterward, as being rather a queer remark, but he did

not think so at the time.

The truth was that the young inventor wished very much to try out a new

device on his noiseless aeroplane and wanted to get rid of Mr. Gale

before doing so. So he did not pay as much attention to the remarks of

the president as, otherwise, he might have done.

It was not until after Mr. Gale had taken his leave and Tom had

finished the particular work on which he was engaged when the president

of the rival company came in, that the young man did some hard

thinking. And this thinking was done after he had received a telephone

call from Mary Nestor, asking, if by any chance, he had heard anything

like a clew as to the whereabouts of her father.

Tom had been obliged to tell her that he had not. Everything possible

was being done to find the missing man but he had disappeared as

completely as though he had ridden on his bicycle into the crater of

some extinct volcano on the meadow, and had fallen to the bottom.

An effort was made to trace him through an automobile association which

had a large membership. That is, the members were asked to make

inquiries to ascertain, if possible, whether any one had heard of an

unreported accident--one in which Mr. Nestor might have been carried

away by persons who accidently ran him down.

But this came to naught, and the police and other authorities were at a