missiles the Martians had fired at us drew earthward, rushing now at a

pace of many miles a second through the empty gulf of space, hour by

hour and day by day, nearer and nearer. It seems to me now almost

incredibly wonderful that, with that swift fate hanging over us, men

could go about their petty concerns as they did. I remember how

jubilant Markham was at securing a new photograph of the planet for the

illustrated paper he edited in those days. People in these latter times

scarcely realise the abundance and enterprise of our nineteenth-century

papers. For my own part, I was much occupied in learning to ride the

bicycle, and busy upon a series of papers discussing the probable

developments of moral ideas as civilisation progressed.

One night (the first missile then could scarcely have been 10,000,000

miles away) I went for a walk with my wife. It was starlight and I

explained the Signs of the Zodiac to her, and pointed out Mars, a

bright dot of light creeping zenithward, towards which so many

telescopes were pointed. It was a warm night. Coming home, a party of

excursionists from Chertsey or Isleworth passed us singing and playing

music. There were lights in the upper windows of the houses as the

people went to bed. From the railway station in the distance came the

sound of shunting trains, ringing and rumbling, softened almost into

melody by the distance. My wife pointed out to me the brightness of the

red, green, and yellow signal lights hanging in a framework against the

sky. It seemed so safe and tranquil.

II.

THE FALLING STAR.

Then came the night of the first falling star. It was seen early in the

morning, rushing over Winchester eastward, a line of flame high in the

atmosphere. Hundreds must have seen it, and taken it for an ordinary

falling star. Albin described it as leaving a greenish streak behind it

that glowed for some seconds. Denning, our greatest authority on

meteorites, stated that the height of its first appearance was about

ninety or one hundred miles. It seemed to him that it fell to earth

about one hundred miles east of him.

I was at home at that hour and writing in my study; and although my

French windows face towards Ottershaw and the blind was up (for I loved

in those days to look up at the night sky), I saw nothing of it. Yet

this strangest of all things that ever came to earth from outer space

must have fallen while I was sitting there, visible to me had I only

looked up as it passed. Some of those who saw its flight say it

travelled with a hissing sound. I myself heard nothing of that. Many

people in Berkshire, Surrey, and Middlesex must have seen the fall of

it, and, at most, have thought that another meteorite had descended. No

one seems to have troubled to look for the fallen mass that night.

But very early in the morning poor Ogilvy, who had seen the shooting

star and who was persuaded that a meteorite lay somewhere on the common

between Horsell, Ottershaw, and Woking, rose early with the idea of

finding it. Find it he did, soon after dawn, and not far from the

sand-pits. An enormous hole had been made by the impact of the

projectile, and the sand and gravel had been flung violently in every

direction over the heath, forming heaps visible a mile and a half away.

The heather was on fire eastward, and a thin blue smoke rose against

the dawn.

The Thing itself lay almost entirely buried in sand, amidst the

scattered splinters of a fir tree it had shivered to fragments in its

descent. The uncovered part had the appearance of a huge cylinder,

caked over and its outline softened by a thick scaly dun-coloured

incrustation. It had a diameter of about thirty yards. He approached

the mass, surprised at the size and more so at the shape, since most

meteorites are rounded more or less completely. It was, however, still

so hot from its flight through the air as to forbid his near approach.

A stirring noise within its cylinder he ascribed to the unequal cooling

of its surface; for at that time it had not occurred to him that it

might be hollow.

He remained standing at the edge of the pit that the Thing had made for

itself, staring at its strange appearance, astonished chiefly at its

unusual shape and colour, and dimly perceiving even then some evidence

of design in its arrival. The early morning was wonderfully still, and

the sun, just clearing the pine trees towards Weybridge, was already

warm. He did not remember hearing any birds that morning, there was

certainly no breeze stirring, and the only sounds were the faint