out. When we got to the porch the Professor opened his bag and took out

a lot of things, which he laid on the step, sorting them into four

little groups, evidently one for each. Then he spoke:--

“My friends, we are going into a terrible danger, and we need arms of

many kinds. Our enemy is not merely spiritual. Remember that he has the

strength of twenty men, and that, though our necks or our windpipes are

of the common kind--and therefore breakable or crushable--his are not

amenable to mere strength. A stronger man, or a body of men more strong

in all than him, can at certain times hold him; but they cannot hurt him

as we can be hurt by him. We must, therefore, guard ourselves from his

touch. Keep this near your heart”--as he spoke he lifted a little silver

crucifix and held it out to me, I being nearest to him--“put these

flowers round your neck”--here he handed to me a wreath of withered

garlic blossoms--“for other enemies more mundane, this revolver and this

knife; and for aid in all, these so small electric lamps, which you can

fasten to your breast; and for all, and above all at the last, this,

which we must not desecrate needless.” This was a portion of Sacred

Wafer, which he put in an envelope and handed to me. Each of the others

was similarly equipped. “Now,” he said, “friend John, where are the

skeleton keys? If so that we can open the door, we need not break house

by the window, as before at Miss Lucy’s.”

Dr. Seward tried one or two skeleton keys, his mechanical dexterity as a

surgeon standing him in good stead. Presently he got one to suit; after

a little play back and forward the bolt yielded, and, with a rusty

clang, shot back. We pressed on the door, the rusty hinges creaked, and

it slowly opened. It was startlingly like the image conveyed to me in

Dr. Seward’s diary of the opening of Miss Westenra’s tomb; I fancy that

the same idea seemed to strike the others, for with one accord they

shrank back. The Professor was the first to move forward, and stepped

into the open door.

“_In manus tuas, Domine!_” he said, crossing himself as he passed over

the threshold. We closed the door behind us, lest when we should have

lit our lamps we should possibly attract attention from the road. The

Professor carefully tried the lock, lest we might not be able to open it

from within should we be in a hurry making our exit. Then we all lit our

lamps and proceeded on our search.

The light from the tiny lamps fell in all sorts of odd forms, as the

rays crossed each other, or the opacity of our bodies threw great

shadows. I could not for my life get away from the feeling that there

was some one else amongst us. I suppose it was the recollection, so

powerfully brought home to me by the grim surroundings, of that terrible

experience in Transylvania. I think the feeling was common to us all,

for I noticed that the others kept looking over their shoulders at every

sound and every new shadow, just as I felt myself doing.

The whole place was thick with dust. The floor was seemingly inches

deep, except where there were recent footsteps, in which on holding down

my lamp I could see marks of hobnails where the dust was cracked. The

walls were fluffy and heavy with dust, and in the corners were masses of

spider’s webs, whereon the dust had gathered till they looked like old

tattered rags as the weight had torn them partly down. On a table in the

hall was a great bunch of keys, with a time-yellowed label on each. They

had been used several times, for on the table were several similar rents

in the blanket of dust, similar to that exposed when the Professor

lifted them. He turned to me and said:--

“You know this place, Jonathan. You have copied maps of it, and you know

it at least more than we do. Which is the way to the chapel?” I had an

idea of its direction, though on my former visit I had not been able to

get admission to it; so I led the way, and after a few wrong turnings

found myself opposite a low, arched oaken door, ribbed with iron bands.

“This is the spot,” said the Professor as he turned his lamp on a small

map of the house, copied from the file of my original correspondence

regarding the purchase. With a little trouble we found the key on the

bunch and opened the door. We were prepared for some unpleasantness, for

as we were opening the door a faint, malodorous air seemed to exhale

through the gaps, but none of us ever expected such an odour as we

encountered. None of the others had met the Count at all at close

quarters, and when I had seen him he was either in the fasting stage of

his existence in his rooms or, when he was gloated with fresh blood, in

a ruined building open to the air; but here the place was small and