work of to-morrow may be the beginning of the end. I wonder if

Renfield’s quiet has anything to do with this. His moods have so

followed the doings of the Count, that the coming destruction of the

monster may be carried to him in some subtle way. If we could only get

some hint as to what passed in his mind, between the time of my argument

with him to-day and his resumption of fly-catching, it might afford us a

valuable clue. He is now seemingly quiet for a spell.... Is he?---- That

wild yell seemed to come from his room....

 * * * * *

The attendant came bursting into my room and told me that Renfield had

somehow met with some accident. He had heard him yell; and when he went

to him found him lying on his face on the floor, all covered with blood.

I must go at once....

CHAPTER XXI

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY

_3 October._--Let me put down with exactness all that happened, as well

as I can remember it, since last I made an entry. Not a detail that I

can recall must be forgotten; in all calmness I must proceed.

When I came to Renfield’s room I found him lying on the floor on his

left side in a glittering pool of blood. When I went to move him, it

became at once apparent that he had received some terrible injuries;

there seemed none of that unity of purpose between the parts of the body

which marks even lethargic sanity. As the face was exposed I could see

that it was horribly bruised, as though it had been beaten against the

floor--indeed it was from the face wounds that the pool of blood

originated. The attendant who was kneeling beside the body said to me as

we turned him over:--

“I think, sir, his back is broken. See, both his right arm and leg and

the whole side of his face are paralysed.” How such a thing could have

happened puzzled the attendant beyond measure. He seemed quite

bewildered, and his brows were gathered in as he said:--

“I can’t understand the two things. He could mark his face like that by

beating his own head on the floor. I saw a young woman do it once at the

Eversfield Asylum before anyone could lay hands on her. And I suppose he

might have broke his neck by falling out of bed, if he got in an awkward

kink. But for the life of me I can’t imagine how the two things

occurred. If his back was broke, he couldn’t beat his head; and if his

face was like that before the fall out of bed, there would be marks of

it.” I said to him:--

“Go to Dr. Van Helsing, and ask him to kindly come here at once. I want

him without an instant’s delay.” The man ran off, and within a few

minutes the Professor, in his dressing gown and slippers, appeared. When

he saw Renfield on the ground, he looked keenly at him a moment, and

then turned to me. I think he recognised my thought in my eyes, for he

said very quietly, manifestly for the ears of the attendant:--

“Ah, a sad accident! He will need very careful watching, and much

attention. I shall stay with you myself; but I shall first dress myself.

If you will remain I shall in a few minutes join you.”

The patient was now breathing stertorously and it was easy to see that

he had suffered some terrible injury. Van Helsing returned with

extraordinary celerity, bearing with him a surgical case. He had

evidently been thinking and had his mind made up; for, almost before he

looked at the patient, he whispered to me:--

“Send the attendant away. We must be alone with him when he becomes

conscious, after the operation.” So I said:--

“I think that will do now, Simmons. We have done all that we can at

present. You had better go your round, and Dr. Van Helsing will operate.

Let me know instantly if there be anything unusual anywhere.”

The man withdrew, and we went into a strict examination of the patient.

The wounds of the face was superficial; the real injury was a depressed

fracture of the skull, extending right up through the motor area. The

Professor thought a moment and said:--

“We must reduce the pressure and get back to normal conditions, as far

as can be; the rapidity of the suffusion shows the terrible nature of

his injury. The whole motor area seems affected. The suffusion of the

brain will increase quickly, so we must trephine at once or it may be

too late.” As he was speaking there was a soft tapping at the door. I

went over and opened it and found in the corridor without, Arthur and

Quincey in pajamas and slippers: the former spoke:--