to-night. I am too miserable, too low-spirited, too sick of the world

and all in it, including life itself, that I would not care if I heard

this moment the flapping of the wings of the angel of death. And he has

been flapping those grim wings to some purpose of late--Lucy’s mother

and Arthur’s father, and now.... Let me get on with my work.

I duly relieved Van Helsing in his watch over Lucy. We wanted Arthur to

go to rest also, but he refused at first. It was only when I told him

that we should want him to help us during the day, and that we must not

all break down for want of rest, lest Lucy should suffer, that he agreed

to go. Van Helsing was very kind to him. “Come, my child,” he said;

“come with me. You are sick and weak, and have had much sorrow and much

mental pain, as well as that tax on your strength that we know of. You

must not be alone; for to be alone is to be full of fears and alarms.

Come to the drawing-room, where there is a big fire, and there are two

sofas. You shall lie on one, and I on the other, and our sympathy will

be comfort to each other, even though we do not speak, and even if we

sleep.” Arthur went off with him, casting back a longing look on Lucy’s

face, which lay in her pillow, almost whiter than the lawn. She lay

quite still, and I looked round the room to see that all was as it

should be. I could see that the Professor had carried out in this room,

as in the other, his purpose of using the garlic; the whole of the

window-sashes reeked with it, and round Lucy’s neck, over the silk

handkerchief which Van Helsing made her keep on, was a rough chaplet of

the same odorous flowers. Lucy was breathing somewhat stertorously, and

her face was at its worst, for the open mouth showed the pale gums. Her

teeth, in the dim, uncertain light, seemed longer and sharper than they

had been in the morning. In particular, by some trick of the light, the

canine teeth looked longer and sharper than the rest. I sat down by her,

and presently she moved uneasily. At the same moment there came a sort

of dull flapping or buffeting at the window. I went over to it softly,

and peeped out by the corner of the blind. There was a full moonlight,

and I could see that the noise was made by a great bat, which wheeled

round--doubtless attracted by the light, although so dim--and every now

and again struck the window with its wings. When I came back to my seat,

I found that Lucy had moved slightly, and had torn away the garlic

flowers from her throat. I replaced them as well as I could, and sat

watching her.

Presently she woke, and I gave her food, as Van Helsing had prescribed.

She took but a little, and that languidly. There did not seem to be with

her now the unconscious struggle for life and strength that had hitherto

so marked her illness. It struck me as curious that the moment she

became conscious she pressed the garlic flowers close to her. It was

certainly odd that whenever she got into that lethargic state, with the

stertorous breathing, she put the flowers from her; but that when she

waked she clutched them close. There was no possibility of making any

mistake about this, for in the long hours that followed, she had many

spells of sleeping and waking and repeated both actions many times.

At six o’clock Van Helsing came to relieve me. Arthur had then fallen

into a doze, and he mercifully let him sleep on. When he saw Lucy’s face

I could hear the sissing indraw of his breath, and he said to me in a

sharp whisper: “Draw up the blind; I want light!” Then he bent down,

and, with his face almost touching Lucy’s, examined her carefully. He

removed the flowers and lifted the silk handkerchief from her throat. As

he did so he started back, and I could hear his ejaculation, “Mein

Gott!” as it was smothered in his throat. I bent over and looked, too,

and as I noticed some queer chill came over me.

The wounds on the throat had absolutely disappeared.

For fully five minutes Van Helsing stood looking at her, with his face

at its sternest. Then he turned to me and said calmly:--

“She is dying. It will not be long now. It will be much difference, mark

me, whether she dies conscious or in her sleep. Wake that poor boy, and

let him come and see the last; he trusts us, and we have promised him.”

I went to the dining-room and waked him. He was dazed for a moment, but

when he saw the sunlight streaming in through the edges of the shutters