angels’ eyes. Your husband is noble nature, and you are noble too, for

you trust, and trust cannot be where there is mean nature. And your

husband--tell me of him. Is he quite well? Is all that fever gone, and

is he strong and hearty?” I saw here an opening to ask him about

Jonathan, so I said:--

“He was almost recovered, but he has been greatly upset by Mr. Hawkins’s

death.” He interrupted:--

“Oh, yes, I know, I know. I have read your last two letters.” I went

on:--

“I suppose this upset him, for when we were in town on Thursday last he

had a sort of shock.”

“A shock, and after brain fever so soon! That was not good. What kind of

a shock was it?”

“He thought he saw some one who recalled something terrible, something

which led to his brain fever.” And here the whole thing seemed to

overwhelm me in a rush. The pity for Jonathan, the horror which he

experienced, the whole fearful mystery of his diary, and the fear that

has been brooding over me ever since, all came in a tumult. I suppose I

was hysterical, for I threw myself on my knees and held up my hands to

him, and implored him to make my husband well again. He took my hands

and raised me up, and made me sit on the sofa, and sat by me; he held my

hand in his, and said to me with, oh, such infinite sweetness:--

“My life is a barren and lonely one, and so full of work that I have not

had much time for friendships; but since I have been summoned to here by

my friend John Seward I have known so many good people and seen such

nobility that I feel more than ever--and it has grown with my advancing

years--the loneliness of my life. Believe, me, then, that I come here

full of respect for you, and you have given me hope--hope, not in what I

am seeking of, but that there are good women still left to make life

happy--good women, whose lives and whose truths may make good lesson for

the children that are to be. I am glad, glad, that I may here be of some

use to you; for if your husband suffer, he suffer within the range of my

study and experience. I promise you that I will gladly do _all_ for him

that I can--all to make his life strong and manly, and your life a happy

one. Now you must eat. You are overwrought and perhaps over-anxious.

Husband Jonathan would not like to see you so pale; and what he like not

where he love, is not to his good. Therefore for his sake you must eat

and smile. You have told me all about Lucy, and so now we shall not

speak of it, lest it distress. I shall stay in Exeter to-night, for I

want to think much over what you have told me, and when I have thought I

will ask you questions, if I may. And then, too, you will tell me of

husband Jonathan’s trouble so far as you can, but not yet. You must eat

now; afterwards you shall tell me all.”

After lunch, when we went back to the drawing-room, he said to me:--

“And now tell me all about him.” When it came to speaking to this great

learned man, I began to fear that he would think me a weak fool, and

Jonathan a madman--that journal is all so strange--and I hesitated to go

on. But he was so sweet and kind, and he had promised to help, and I

trusted him, so I said:--

“Dr. Van Helsing, what I have to tell you is so queer that you must not

laugh at me or at my husband. I have been since yesterday in a sort of

fever of doubt; you must be kind to me, and not think me foolish that I

have even half believed some very strange things.” He reassured me by

his manner as well as his words when he said:--

“Oh, my dear, if you only know how strange is the matter regarding which

I am here, it is you who would laugh. I have learned not to think little

of any one’s belief, no matter how strange it be. I have tried to keep

an open mind; and it is not the ordinary things of life that could close

it, but the strange things, the extraordinary things, the things that

make one doubt if they be mad or sane.”

“Thank you, thank you, a thousand times! You have taken a weight off my

mind. If you will let me, I shall give you a paper to read. It is long,

but I have typewritten it out. It will tell you my trouble and

Jonathan’s. It is the copy of his journal when abroad, and all that

happened. I dare not say anything of it; you will read for yourself and

judge. And then when I see you, perhaps, you will be very kind and tell

me what you think.”