us but the chance of a horrible death, we could sit following the

chance of this painted pasteboard, and playing the “joker” with vivid

delight. Afterwards he taught me poker, and I beat him at three tough

chess games. When dark came we decided to take the risk, and lit a

lamp.

After an interminable string of games, we supped, and the artilleryman

finished the champagne. We went on smoking the cigars. He was no longer

the energetic regenerator of his species I had encountered in the

morning. He was still optimistic, but it was a less kinetic, a more

thoughtful optimism. I remember he wound up with my health, proposed in

a speech of small variety and considerable intermittence. I took a

cigar, and went upstairs to look at the lights of which he had spoken

that blazed so greenly along the Highgate hills.

At first I stared unintelligently across the London valley. The

northern hills were shrouded in darkness; the fires near Kensington

glowed redly, and now and then an orange-red tongue of flame flashed up

and vanished in the deep blue night. All the rest of London was black.

Then, nearer, I perceived a strange light, a pale, violet-purple

fluorescent glow, quivering under the night breeze. For a space I could

not understand it, and then I knew that it must be the red weed from

which this faint irradiation proceeded. With that realisation my

dormant sense of wonder, my sense of the proportion of things, awoke

again. I glanced from that to Mars, red and clear, glowing high in the

west, and then gazed long and earnestly at the darkness of Hampstead

and Highgate.

I remained a very long time upon the roof, wondering at the grotesque

changes of the day. I recalled my mental states from the midnight

prayer to the foolish card-playing. I had a violent revulsion of

feeling. I remember I flung away the cigar with a certain wasteful

symbolism. My folly came to me with glaring exaggeration. I seemed a

traitor to my wife and to my kind; I was filled with remorse. I

resolved to leave this strange undisciplined dreamer of great things to

his drink and gluttony, and to go on into London. There, it seemed to

me, I had the best chance of learning what the Martians and my

fellowmen were doing. I was still upon the roof when the late moon

rose.

VIII.

DEAD LONDON.

After I had parted from the artilleryman, I went down the hill, and by

the High Street across the bridge to Fulham. The red weed was

tumultuous at that time, and nearly choked the bridge roadway; but its

fronds were already whitened in patches by the spreading disease that

presently removed it so swiftly.

At the corner of the lane that runs to Putney Bridge station I found a

man lying. He was as black as a sweep with the black dust, alive, but

helplessly and speechlessly drunk. I could get nothing from him but

curses and furious lunges at my head. I think I should have stayed by

him but for the brutal expression of his face.

There was black dust along the roadway from the bridge onwards, and it

grew thicker in Fulham. The streets were horribly quiet. I got

food—sour, hard, and mouldy, but quite eatable—in a baker’s shop here.

Some way towards Walham Green the streets became clear of powder, and I

passed a white terrace of houses on fire; the noise of the burning was

an absolute relief. Going on towards Brompton, the streets were quiet

again.

Here I came once more upon the black powder in the streets and upon

dead bodies. I saw altogether about a dozen in the length of the Fulham

Road. They had been dead many days, so that I hurried quickly past

them. The black powder covered them over, and softened their outlines.

One or two had been disturbed by dogs.

Where there was no black powder, it was curiously like a Sunday in the

City, with the closed shops, the houses locked up and the blinds drawn,

the desertion, and the stillness. In some places plunderers had been at

work, but rarely at other than the provision and wine shops. A

jeweller’s window had been broken open in one place, but apparently the

thief had been disturbed, and a number of gold chains and a watch lay