from her ever-creative spirit, and communicated itself to a thousand

objects, as a torch kindles a flame wherever it may be applied. The

unlikeliest materials—a stick, a bunch of rags, a flower—were the

puppets of Pearl’s witchcraft, and, without undergoing any outward

change, became spiritually adapted to whatever drama occupied the

stage of her inner world. Her one baby-voice served a multitude of

imaginary personages, old and young, to talk withal. The pine-trees,

aged, black and solemn, and flinging groans and other melancholy

utterances on the breeze, needed little transformation to figure as

Puritan elders; the ugliest weeds of the garden were their children,

whom Pearl smote down and uprooted, most unmercifully. It was

wonderful, the vast variety of forms into which she threw her

intellect, with no continuity, indeed, but darting up and dancing,

always in a state of preternatural activity,—soon sinking down, as if

exhausted by so rapid and feverish a tide of life,—and succeeded by

other shapes of a similar wild energy. It was like nothing so much as

the phantasmagoric play of the northern lights. In the mere exercise

of the fancy, however, and the sportiveness of a growing mind, there

might be little more than was observable in other children of bright

faculties; except as Pearl, in the dearth of human playmates, was

thrown more upon the visionary throng which she created. The

singularity lay in the hostile feelings with which the child regarded

all these offspring of her own heart and mind. She never created a

friend, but seemed always to be sowing broadcast the dragon’s teeth,

whence sprung a harvest of armed enemies, against whom she rushed to

battle. It was inexpressibly sad—then what depth of sorrow to a

mother, who felt in her own heart the cause!—to observe, in one so

young, this constant recognition of an adverse world, and so fierce a

training of the energies that were to make good her cause, in the

contest that must ensue.

Gazing at Pearl, Hester Prynne often dropped her work upon her knees,

and cried out with an agony which she would fain have hidden, but

which made utterance for itself, betwixt speech and a groan,—“O

Father in Heaven,—if Thou art still my Father,—what is this being

which I have brought into the world!” And Pearl, overhearing the

ejaculation, or aware, through some more subtile channel, of those

throbs of anguish, would turn her vivid and beautiful little face upon

her mother, smile with sprite-like intelligence, and resume her play.

[Illustration: A touch of Pearl’s baby-hand]

One peculiarity of the child’s deportment remains yet to be told. The

very first thing which she had noticed in her life was—what?—not the

mother’s smile, responding to it, as other babies do, by that faint,

embryo smile of the little mouth, remembered so doubtfully afterwards,

and with such fond discussion whether it were indeed a smile. By no

means! But that first object of which Pearl seemed to become aware

was—shall we say it?—the scarlet letter on Hester’s bosom! One day,

as her mother stooped over the cradle, the infant’s eyes had been

caught by the glimmering of the gold embroidery about the letter; and,

putting up her little hand, she grasped at it, smiling, not

doubtfully, but with a decided gleam, that gave her face the look of a

much older child. Then, gasping for breath, did Hester Prynne clutch

the fatal token, instinctively endeavoring to tear it away; so

infinite was the torture inflicted by the intelligent touch of Pearl’s

baby-hand. Again, as if her mother’s agonized gesture were meant only

to make sport for her, did little Pearl look into her eyes, and

smile! From that epoch, except when the child was asleep, Hester had

never felt a moment’s safety; not a moment’s calm enjoyment of her.

Weeks, it is true, would sometimes elapse, during which Pearl’s gaze

might never once be fixed upon the scarlet letter; but then, again, it

would come at unawares, like the stroke of sudden death, and always

with that peculiar smile, and odd expression of the eyes.

Once, this freakish, elvish cast came into the child’s eyes, while

Hester was looking at her own image in them, as mothers are fond of

doing; and, suddenly,—for women in solitude, and with troubled

hearts, are pestered with unaccountable delusions,—she fancied that

she beheld, not her own miniature portrait, but another face, in the

small black mirror of Pearl’s eye. It was a face, fiend-like, full of

smiling malice, yet bearing the semblance of features that she had

known full well, though seldom with a smile, and never with malice in

them. It was as if an evil spirit possessed the child, and had just

then peeped forth in mockery. Many a time afterwards had Hester been

tortured, though less vividly, by the same illusion.

In the afternoon of a certain summer’s day, after Pearl grew big

enough to run about, she amused herself with gathering handfuls of

wild-flowers, and flinging them, one by one, at her mother’s bosom;

dancing up and down, like a little elf, whenever she hit the scarlet

letter. Hester’s first motion had been to cover her bosom with her

clasped hands. But, whether from pride or resignation, or a feeling