the first grand object of every morning’s impatience. Through letters,

whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated; and every

succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.

But before they heard again from Mr. Gardiner, a letter arrived for

their father, from a different quarter, from Mr. Collins; which, as Jane

had received directions to open all that came for him in his absence,

she accordingly read; and Elizabeth, who knew what curiosities his

letters always were, looked over her, and read it likewise. It was as

follows:--

 /* “My dear Sir, */

 “I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation

 in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now

 suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a letter

 from Hertfordshire. Be assured, my dear sir, that Mrs. Collins and

 myself sincerely sympathize with you, and all your respectable

 family, in your present distress, which must be of the bitterest

 kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time can remove. No

 arguments shall be wanting on my part, that can alleviate so severe

 a misfortune; or that may comfort you, under a circumstance that

 must be, of all others, most afflicting to a parent’s mind. The

 death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison of

 this. And it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to

 suppose, as my dear Charlotte informs me, that this licentiousness

 of behaviour in your

 [Illustration:

“To whom I have related the affair”

 [_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

 daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though,

 at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and Mrs. Bennet,

 I am inclined to think that her own disposition must be naturally

 bad, or she could not be guilty of such an enormity, at so early an

 age. Howsoever that may be, you are grievously to be pitied; in

 which opinion I am not only joined by Mrs. Collins, but likewise by

 Lady Catherine and her daughter, to whom I have related the affair.

 They agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one

 daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others: for

 who, as Lady Catherine herself condescendingly says, will connect

 themselves with such a family? And this consideration leads me,

 moreover, to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain

 event of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been

 involved in all your sorrow and disgrace. Let me advise you, then,

 my dear sir, to console yourself as much as possible, to throw off

 your unworthy child from your affection for ever, and leave her to

 reap the fruits of her own heinous offence.

“I am, dear sir,” etc., etc.

Mr. Gardiner did not write again, till he had received an answer from

Colonel Forster; and then he had nothing of a pleasant nature to send.

It was not known that Wickham had a single relation with whom he kept up

any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one living. His

former acquaintance had been numerous; but since he had been in the

militia, it did not appear that he was on terms of particular friendship

with any of them. There was no one, therefore, who could be pointed out

as likely to give any news of him. And in the wretched state of his own

finances, there was a very powerful motive for secrecy, in addition to

his fear of discovery by Lydia’s relations; for it had just transpired

that he had left gaming debts behind him to a very considerable amount.

Colonel Forster believed that more than a thousand pounds would be

necessary to clear his expenses at Brighton. He owed a good deal in the

town, but his debts of honour were still more formidable. Mr. Gardiner

did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the Longbourn family;

Jane heard them with horror. “A gamester!” she cried. “This is wholly

unexpected; I had not an idea of it.”

Mr. Gardiner added, in his letter, that they might expect to see their

father at home on the following day, which was Saturday. Rendered

spiritless by the ill success of all their endeavours, he had yielded to

his brother-in-law’s entreaty that he would return to his family and

leave it to him to do whatever occasion might suggest to be advisable

for continuing their pursuit. When Mrs. Bennet was told of this, she did

not express so much satisfaction as her children expected, considering

what her anxiety for his life had been before.

“What! is he coming home, and without poor Lydia?” she cried. “Sure he

will not leave London before he has found them. Who is to fight Wickham,

and make him marry her, if he comes away?”

As Mrs. Gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that she

and her children should go to London at the same time that Mr. Bennet

came from it. The coach, therefore, took them the first stage of their

journey, and brought its master back to Longbourn.