is not such a simpleton. Could she have seen half as much love in Mr.

Darcy for herself, she would have ordered her wedding clothes. But the

case is this:--we are not rich enough or grand enough for them; and she

is the more anxious to get Miss Darcy for her brother, from the notion

that when there has been _one_ inter-marriage, she may have less trouble

in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and I

dare say it would succeed if Miss de Bourgh were out of the way. But, my

dearest Jane, you cannot seriously imagine that, because Miss Bingley

tells you her brother greatly admires Miss Darcy, he is in the smallest

degree less sensible of _your_ merit than when he took leave of you on

Tuesday; or that it will be in her power to persuade him that, instead

of being in love with you, he is very much in love with her friend.”

“If we thought alike of Miss Bingley,” replied Jane, “your

representation of all this might make me quite easy. But I know the

foundation is unjust. Caroline is incapable of wilfully deceiving

anyone; and all that I can hope in this case is, that she is deceived

herself.”

“That is right. You could not have started a more happy idea, since you

will not take comfort in mine: believe her to be deceived, by all means.

You have now done your duty by her, and must fret no longer.”

“But, my dear sister, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in

accepting a man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to marry

elsewhere?”

“You must decide for yourself,” said Elizabeth; “and if, upon mature

deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his two sisters is

more than equivalent to the happiness of being his wife, I advise you,

by all means, to refuse him.”

“How can you talk so?” said Jane, faintly smiling; “you must know, that,

though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could

not hesitate.”

“I did not think you would; and that being the case, I cannot consider

your situation with much compassion.”

“But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be

required. A thousand things may arise in six months.”

The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the utmost

contempt. It appeared to her merely the suggestion of Caroline’s

interested wishes; and she could not for a moment suppose that those

wishes, however openly or artfully spoken, could influence a young man

so totally independent of everyone.

She represented to her sister, as forcibly as possible, what she felt on

the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing its happy effect.

Jane’s temper was not desponding; and she was gradually led to hope,

though the diffidence of affection sometimes overcame the hope, that

Bingley would return to Netherfield, and answer every wish of her heart.

They agreed that Mrs. Bennet should only hear of the departure of the

family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman’s conduct;

but even this partial communication gave her a great deal of concern,

and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen

to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together. After

lamenting it, however, at some length, she had the consolation of

thinking that Mr. Bingley would be soon down again, and soon dining at

Longbourn; and the conclusion of all was the comfortable declaration,

that, though he had been invited only to a family dinner, she would take

care to have two full courses.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XXII.

[Illustration]

The Bennets were engaged to dine with the Lucases; and again, during the

chief of the day, was Miss Lucas so kind as to listen to Mr. Collins.

Elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her. “It keeps him in good

humour,” said she, “and I am more obliged to you than I can express.”

Charlotte assured her friend of her satisfaction in being useful, and

that it amply repaid her for the little sacrifice of her time. This was

very amiable; but Charlotte’s kindness extended farther than Elizabeth

had any conception of:--its object was nothing less than to secure her

from any return of Mr. Collins’s addresses, by engaging them towards

herself. Such was Miss Lucas’s scheme; and appearances were so

favourable, that when they parted at night, she would have felt almost

sure of success if he had not been to leave Hertfordshire so very soon.

But here she did injustice to the fire and independence of his

character; for it led him to escape out of Longbourn House the next

morning with admirable slyness, and hasten to Lucas Lodge to throw

himself at her feet. He was anxious to avoid the notice of his cousins,

from a conviction that, if they saw him depart, they could not fail to

conjecture his design, and he was not willing to have the attempt known

till its success could be known likewise; for, though feeling almost

secure, and with reason, for Charlotte had been tolerably encouraging,

he was comparatively diffident since the adventure of Wednesday. His

reception, however, was of the most flattering kind. Miss Lucas

perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house, and

instantly set out to meet him accidentally in the lane. But little had

she dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited her there.

In as short a time as Mr. Collins’s long speeches would allow,