only for your bloomin’ ’arf-quid I’d ’a’ seen you blowed fust ’fore I’d

answer. Not even when you arsked me sarcastic-like if I’d like you to

arsk the Superintendent if you might arsk me questions. Without offence

did I tell yer to go to ’ell?”

“You did.”

“An’ when you said you’d report me for usin’ of obscene language that

was ’ittin’ me over the ’ead; but the ’arf-quid made that all right. I

weren’t a-goin’ to fight, so I waited for the food, and did with my ’owl

as the wolves, and lions, and tigers does. But, Lor’ love yer ’art, now

that the old ’ooman has stuck a chunk of her tea-cake in me, an’ rinsed

me out with her bloomin’ old teapot, and I’ve lit hup, you may scratch

my ears for all you’re worth, and won’t git even a growl out of me.

Drive along with your questions. I know what yer a-comin’ at, that ’ere

escaped wolf.”

“Exactly. I want you to give me your view of it. Just tell me how it

happened; and when I know the facts I’ll get you to say what you

consider was the cause of it, and how you think the whole affair will

end.”

“All right, guv’nor. This ’ere is about the ’ole story. That ’ere wolf

what we called Bersicker was one of three grey ones that came from

Norway to Jamrach’s, which we bought off him four years ago. He was a

nice well-behaved wolf, that never gave no trouble to talk of. I’m more

surprised at ’im for wantin’ to get out nor any other animile in the

place. But, there, you can’t trust wolves no more nor women.”

“Don’t you mind him, sir!” broke in Mrs. Tom, with a cheery laugh. “’E’s

got mindin’ the animiles so long that blest if he ain’t like a old wolf

’isself! But there ain’t no ’arm in ’im.”

“Well, sir, it was about two hours after feedin’ yesterday when I first

hear my disturbance. I was makin’ up a litter in the monkey-house for a

young puma which is ill; but when I heard the yelpin’ and ’owlin’ I kem

away straight. There was Bersicker a-tearin’ like a mad thing at the

bars as if he wanted to get out. There wasn’t much people about that

day, and close at hand was only one man, a tall, thin chap, with a ’ook

nose and a pointed beard, with a few white hairs runnin’ through it. He

had a ’ard, cold look and red eyes, and I took a sort of mislike to him,

for it seemed as if it was ’im as they was hirritated at. He ’ad white

kid gloves on ’is ’ands, and he pointed out the animiles to me and says:

‘Keeper, these wolves seem upset at something.’

“‘Maybe it’s you,’ says I, for I did not like the airs as he give

’isself. He didn’t git angry, as I ’oped he would, but he smiled a kind

of insolent smile, with a mouth full of white, sharp teeth. ‘Oh no, they

wouldn’t like me,’ ’e says.

“‘Ow yes, they would,’ says I, a-imitatin’ of him. ‘They always likes a

bone or two to clean their teeth on about tea-time, which you ’as a

bagful.’

“Well, it was a odd thing, but when the animiles see us a-talkin’ they

lay down, and when I went over to Bersicker he let me stroke his ears

same as ever. That there man kem over, and blessed but if he didn’t put

in his hand and stroke the old wolf’s ears too!

“‘Tyke care,’ says I. ‘Bersicker is quick.’

“‘Never mind,’ he says. ‘I’m used to ’em!’

“‘Are you in the business yourself?’ I says, tyking off my ’at, for a

man what trades in wolves, anceterer, is a good friend to keepers.

“‘No,’ says he, ‘not exactly in the business, but I ’ave made pets of

several.’ And with that he lifts his ’at as perlite as a lord, and walks

away. Old Bersicker kep’ a-lookin’ arter ’im till ’e was out of sight,

and then went and lay down in a corner and wouldn’t come hout the ’ole

hevening. Well, larst night, so soon as the moon was hup, the wolves

here all began a-’owling. There warn’t nothing for them to ’owl at.

There warn’t no one near, except some one that was evidently a-callin’ a

dog somewheres out back of the gardings in the Park road. Once or twice

I went out to see that all was right, and it was, and then the ’owling

stopped. Just before twelve o’clock I just took a look round afore

turnin’ in, an’, bust me, but when I kem opposite to old Bersicker’s

cage I see the rails broken and twisted about and the cage empty. And

that’s all I know for certing.”

“Did any one else see anything?”

“One of our gard’ners was a-comin’ ’ome about that time from a ’armony,