and showed a red mark on her throat. Arthur did not notice it, but I

could hear the deep hiss of indrawn breath which is one of Van Helsing’s

ways of betraying emotion. He said nothing at the moment, but turned to

me, saying: “Now take down our brave young lover, give him of the port

wine, and let him lie down a while. He must then go home and rest, sleep

much and eat much, that he may be recruited of what he has so given to

his love. He must not stay here. Hold! a moment. I may take it, sir,

that you are anxious of result. Then bring it with you that in all ways

the operation is successful. You have saved her life this time, and you

can go home and rest easy in mind that all that can be is. I shall tell

her all when she is well; she shall love you none the less for what you

have done. Good-bye.”

When Arthur had gone I went back to the room. Lucy was sleeping gently,

but her breathing was stronger; I could see the counterpane move as her

breast heaved. By the bedside sat Van Helsing, looking at her intently.

The velvet band again covered the red mark. I asked the Professor in a

whisper:--

“What do you make of that mark on her throat?”

“What do you make of it?”

“I have not examined it yet,” I answered, and then and there proceeded

to loose the band. Just over the external jugular vein there were two

punctures, not large, but not wholesome-looking. There was no sign of

disease, but the edges were white and worn-looking, as if by some

trituration. It at once occurred to me that this wound, or whatever it

was, might be the means of that manifest loss of blood; but I abandoned

the idea as soon as formed, for such a thing could not be. The whole bed

would have been drenched to a scarlet with the blood which the girl must

have lost to leave such a pallor as she had before the transfusion.

“Well?” said Van Helsing.

“Well,” said I, “I can make nothing of it.” The Professor stood up. “I

must go back to Amsterdam to-night,” he said. “There are books and

things there which I want. You must remain here all the night, and you

must not let your sight pass from her.”

“Shall I have a nurse?” I asked.

“We are the best nurses, you and I. You keep watch all night; see that

she is well fed, and that nothing disturbs her. You must not sleep all

the night. Later on we can sleep, you and I. I shall be back as soon as

possible. And then we may begin.”

“May begin?” I said. “What on earth do you mean?”

“We shall see!” he answered, as he hurried out. He came back a moment

later and put his head inside the door and said with warning finger held

up:--

“Remember, she is your charge. If you leave her, and harm befall, you

shall not sleep easy hereafter!”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary--continued._

_8 September._--I sat up all night with Lucy. The opiate worked itself

off towards dusk, and she waked naturally; she looked a different being

from what she had been before the operation. Her spirits even were good,

and she was full of a happy vivacity, but I could see evidences of the

absolute prostration which she had undergone. When I told Mrs. Westenra

that Dr. Van Helsing had directed that I should sit up with her she

almost pooh-poohed the idea, pointing out her daughter’s renewed

strength and excellent spirits. I was firm, however, and made

preparations for my long vigil. When her maid had prepared her for the

night I came in, having in the meantime had supper, and took a seat by

the bedside. She did not in any way make objection, but looked at me

gratefully whenever I caught her eye. After a long spell she seemed

sinking off to sleep, but with an effort seemed to pull herself together

and shook it off. This was repeated several times, with greater effort

and with shorter pauses as the time moved on. It was apparent that she

did not want to sleep, so I tackled the subject at once:--