to give her peace. If that time shall come again, I look to you to make

it a happy memory of my husband’s life that it was his loving hand which

set me free from the awful thrall upon me.”

“Again I swear!” came the Professor’s resonant voice. Mrs. Harker

smiled, positively smiled, as with a sigh of relief she leaned back and

said:--

“And now one word of warning, a warning which you must never forget:

this time, if it ever come, may come quickly and unexpectedly, and in

such case you must lose no time in using your opportunity. At such a

time I myself might be--nay! if the time ever comes, _shall be_--leagued

with your enemy against you.”

“One more request;” she became very solemn as she said this, “it is not

vital and necessary like the other, but I want you to do one thing for

me, if you will.” We all acquiesced, but no one spoke; there was no need

to speak:--

“I want you to read the Burial Service.” She was interrupted by a deep

groan from her husband; taking his hand in hers, she held it over her

heart, and continued: “You must read it over me some day. Whatever may

be the issue of all this fearful state of things, it will be a sweet

thought to all or some of us. You, my dearest, will I hope read it, for

then it will be in your voice in my memory for ever--come what may!”

“But oh, my dear one,” he pleaded, “death is afar off from you.”

“Nay,” she said, holding up a warning hand. “I am deeper in death at

this moment than if the weight of an earthly grave lay heavy upon me!”

“Oh, my wife, must I read it?” he said, before he began.

“It would comfort me, my husband!” was all she said; and he began to

read when she had got the book ready.

“How can I--how could any one--tell of that strange scene, its

solemnity, its gloom, its sadness, its horror; and, withal, its

sweetness. Even a sceptic, who can see nothing but a travesty of bitter

truth in anything holy or emotional, would have been melted to the heart

had he seen that little group of loving and devoted friends kneeling

round that stricken and sorrowing lady; or heard the tender passion of

her husband’s voice, as in tones so broken with emotion that often he

had to pause, he read the simple and beautiful service from the Burial

of the Dead. I--I cannot go on--words--and--v-voice--f-fail m-me!”

 * * * * *

She was right in her instinct. Strange as it all was, bizarre as it may

hereafter seem even to us who felt its potent influence at the time, it

comforted us much; and the silence, which showed Mrs. Harker’s coming

relapse from her freedom of soul, did not seem so full of despair to any

of us as we had dreaded.

_Jonathan Harker’s Journal._

_15 October, Varna._--We left Charing Cross on the morning of the 12th,

got to Paris the same night, and took the places secured for us in the

Orient Express. We travelled night and day, arriving here at about five

o’clock. Lord Godalming went to the Consulate to see if any telegram had

arrived for him, whilst the rest of us came on to this hotel--“the

Odessus.” The journey may have had incidents; I was, however, too eager

to get on, to care for them. Until the _Czarina Catherine_ comes into

port there will be no interest for me in anything in the wide world.

Thank God! Mina is well, and looks to be getting stronger; her colour is

coming back. She sleeps a great deal; throughout the journey she slept

nearly all the time. Before sunrise and sunset, however, she is very

wakeful and alert; and it has become a habit for Van Helsing to

hypnotise her at such times. At first, some effort was needed, and he

had to make many passes; but now, she seems to yield at once, as if by

habit, and scarcely any action is needed. He seems to have power at

these particular moments to simply will, and her thoughts obey him. He

always asks her what she can see and hear. She answers to the first:--

“Nothing; all is dark.” And to the second:--

“I can hear the waves lapping against the ship, and the water rushing

by. Canvas and cordage strain and masts and yards creak. The wind is

high--I can hear it in the shrouds, and the bow throws back the foam.”

It is evident that the _Czarina Catherine_ is still at sea, hastening on

her way to Varna. Lord Godalming has just returned. He had four

telegrams, one each day since we started, and all to the same effect:

that the _Czarina Catherine_ had not been reported to Lloyd’s from

anywhere. He had arranged before leaving London that his agent should

send him every day a telegram saying if the ship had been reported. He

was to have a message even if she were not reported, so that he might be

sure that there was a watch being kept at the other end of the wire.