no-one. He turned his head to face the door into the living room so

that he could watch the women when they came back.

They had not allowed themselves a long rest and came back quite soon;

Grete had put her arm around her mother and was nearly carrying her.

“What shall we take now, then?”, said Grete and looked around. Her eyes

met those of Gregor on the wall. Perhaps only because her mother was

there, she remained calm, bent her face to her so that she would not

look round and said, albeit hurriedly and with a tremor in her voice:

“Come on, let’s go back in the living room for a while?” Gregor could

see what Grete had in mind, she wanted to take her mother somewhere

safe and then chase him down from the wall. Well, she could certainly

try it! He sat unyielding on his picture. He would rather jump at

Grete’s face.

But Grete’s words had made her mother quite worried, she stepped to one

side, saw the enormous brown patch against the flowers of the

wallpaper, and before she even realised it was Gregor that she saw

screamed: “Oh God, oh God!” Arms outstretched, she fell onto the couch

as if she had given up everything and stayed there immobile. “Gregor!”

shouted his sister, glowering at him and shaking her fist. That was the

first word she had spoken to him directly since his transformation. She

ran into the other room to fetch some kind of smelling salts to bring

her mother out of her faint; Gregor wanted to help too—he could save

his picture later, although he stuck fast to the glass and had to pull

himself off by force; then he, too, ran into the next room as if he

could advise his sister like in the old days; but he had to just stand

behind her doing nothing; she was looking into various bottles, he

startled her when she turned round; a bottle fell to the ground and

broke; a splinter cut Gregor’s face, some kind of caustic medicine

splashed all over him; now, without delaying any longer, Grete took

hold of all the bottles she could and ran with them in to her mother;

she slammed the door shut with her foot. So now Gregor was shut out

from his mother, who, because of him, might be near to death; he could

not open the door if he did not want to chase his sister away, and she

had to stay with his mother; there was nothing for him to do but wait;

and, oppressed with anxiety and self-reproach, he began to crawl about,

he crawled over everything, walls, furniture, ceiling, and finally in

his confusion as the whole room began to spin around him he fell down

into the middle of the dinner table.

He lay there for a while, numb and immobile, all around him it was

quiet, maybe that was a good sign. Then there was someone at the door.

The maid, of course, had locked herself in her kitchen so that Grete

would have to go and answer it. His father had arrived home. “What’s

happened?” were his first words; Grete’s appearance must have made

everything clear to him. She answered him with subdued voice, and

openly pressed her face into his chest: “Mother’s fainted, but she’s

better now. Gregor got out.” “Just as I expected”, said his father,

“just as I always said, but you women wouldn’t listen, would you.” It

was clear to Gregor that Grete had not said enough and that his father

took it to mean that something bad had happened, that he was

responsible for some act of violence. That meant Gregor would now have

to try to calm his father, as he did not have the time to explain

things to him even if that had been possible. So he fled to the door of

his room and pressed himself against it so that his father, when he

came in from the hall, could see straight away that Gregor had the best

intentions and would go back into his room without delay, that it would

not be necessary to drive him back but that they had only to open the

door and he would disappear.

His father, though, was not in the mood to notice subtleties like that;

“Ah!”, he shouted as he came in, sounding as if he were both angry and

glad at the same time. Gregor drew his head back from the door and

lifted it towards his father. He really had not imagined his father the

way he stood there now; of late, with his new habit of crawling about,

he had neglected to pay attention to what was going on the rest of the

flat the way he had done before. He really ought to have expected

things to have changed, but still, still, was that really his father?

The same tired man as used to be laying there entombed in his bed when

Gregor came back from his business trips, who would receive him sitting

in the armchair in his nightgown when he came back in the evenings; who

was hardly even able to stand up but, as a sign of his pleasure, would

just raise his arms and who, on the couple of times a year when they

went for a walk together on a Sunday or public holiday wrapped up

tightly in his overcoat between Gregor and his mother, would always

labour his way forward a little more slowly than them, who were already

walking slowly for his sake; who would place his stick down carefully

and, if he wanted to say something would invariably stop and gather his

companions around him. He was standing up straight enough now; dressed

in a smart blue uniform with gold buttons, the sort worn by the

employees at the banking institute; above the high, stiff collar of the