his Indian captivity, moreover, he had gained much knowledge of the

properties of native herbs and roots; nor did he conceal from his

patients, that these simple medicines, Nature’s boon to the untutored

savage, had quite as large a share of his own confidence as the

European pharmacopœia, which so many learned doctors had spent

centuries in elaborating.

This learned stranger was exemplary, as regarded, at least, the

outward forms of a religious life, and, early after his arrival, had

chosen for his spiritual guide the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale. The young

divine, whose scholar-like renown still lived in Oxford, was

considered by his more fervent admirers as little less than a

heaven-ordained apostle, destined, should he live and labor for the

ordinary term of life, to do as great deeds for the now feeble New

England Church, as the early Fathers had achieved for the infancy of

the Christian faith. About this period, however, the health of Mr.

Dimmesdale had evidently begun to fail. By those best acquainted with

his habits, the paleness of the young minister’s cheek was accounted

for by his too earnest devotion to study, his scrupulous fulfilment of

parochial duty, and, more than all, by the fasts and vigils of which

he made a frequent practice, in order to keep the grossness of this

earthly state from clogging and obscuring his spiritual lamp. Some

declared, that, if Mr. Dimmesdale were really going to die, it was

cause enough, that the world was not worthy to be any longer trodden

by his feet. He himself, on the other hand, with characteristic

humility, avowed his belief, that, if Providence should see fit to

remove him, it would be because of his own unworthiness to perform its

humblest mission here on earth. With all this difference of opinion as

to the cause of his decline, there could be no question of the fact.

His form grew emaciated; his voice, though still rich and sweet, had a

certain melancholy prophecy of decay in it; he was often observed, on

any slight alarm or other sudden accident, to put his hand over his

heart, with first a flush and then a paleness, indicative of pain.

Such was the young clergyman’s condition, and so imminent the prospect

that his dawning light would be extinguished, all untimely, when Roger

Chillingworth made his advent to the town. His first entry on the

scene, few people could tell whence, dropping down, as it were, out of

the sky, or starting from the nether earth, had an aspect of mystery,

which was easily heightened to the miraculous. He was now known to be

a man of skill; it was observed that he gathered herbs, and the

blossoms of wild-flowers, and dug up roots, and plucked off twigs from

the forest-trees, like one acquainted with hidden virtues in what was

valueless to common eyes. He was heard to speak of Sir Kenelm Digby,

and other famous men,—whose scientific attainments were esteemed

hardly less than supernatural,—as having been his correspondents or

associates. Why, with such rank in the learned world, had he come

hither? What could he, whose sphere was in great cities, be seeking in

the wilderness? In answer to this query, a rumor gained ground,—and,

however absurd, was entertained by some very sensible people,—that

Heaven had wrought an absolute miracle, by transporting an eminent

Doctor of Physic, from a German university, bodily through the air,

and setting him down at the door of Mr. Dimmesdale’s study!

Individuals of wiser faith, indeed, who knew that Heaven promotes its

purposes without aiming at the stage-effect of what is called

miraculous interposition, were inclined to see a providential hand in

Roger Chillingworth’s so opportune arrival.

This idea was countenanced by the strong interest which the physician

ever manifested in the young clergyman; he attached himself to him as

a parishioner, and sought to win a friendly regard and confidence from

his naturally reserved sensibility. He expressed great alarm at his

pastor’s state of health, but was anxious to attempt the cure, and, if

early undertaken, seemed not despondent of a favorable result. The

elders, the deacons, the motherly dames, and the young and fair

maidens, of Mr. Dimmesdale’s flock, were alike importunate that he

should make trial of the physician’s frankly offered skill. Mr.

Dimmesdale gently repelled their entreaties.

“I need no medicine,” said he.

But how could the young minister say so, when, with every successive

Sabbath, his cheek was paler and thinner, and his voice more tremulous

than before,—when it had now become a constant habit, rather than a

casual gesture, to press his hand over his heart? Was he weary of his

labors? Did he wish to die? These questions were solemnly propounded

to Mr. Dimmesdale by the elder ministers of Boston and the deacons of

his church, who, to use their own phrase, “dealt with him” on the sin

of rejecting the aid which Providence so manifestly held out. He

listened in silence, and finally promised to confer with the

physician.

“Were it God’s will,” said the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale, when, in

fulfilment of this pledge, he requested old Roger Chillingworth’s

professional advice, “I could be well content, that my labors, and my

sorrows, and my sins, and my pains, should shortly end with me, and