Has no dread of wanting “life” in the future.

Despises the meaner forms of life altogether, though he dreads being

haunted by their souls.

Logically all these things point one way! he has assurance of some kind

that he will acquire some higher life. He dreads the consequence--the

burden of a soul. Then it is a human life he looks to!

And the assurance--?

Merciful God! the Count has been to him, and there is some new scheme of

terror afoot!

 * * * * *

_Later._--I went after my round to Van Helsing and told him my

suspicion. He grew very grave; and, after thinking the matter over for a

while asked me to take him to Renfield. I did so. As we came to the door

we heard the lunatic within singing gaily, as he used to do in the time

which now seems so long ago. When we entered we saw with amazement that

he had spread out his sugar as of old; the flies, lethargic with the

autumn, were beginning to buzz into the room. We tried to make him talk

of the subject of our previous conversation, but he would not attend. He

went on with his singing, just as though we had not been present. He had

got a scrap of paper and was folding it into a note-book. We had to come

away as ignorant as we went in.

His is a curious case indeed; we must watch him to-night.

_Letter, Mitchell, Sons and Candy to Lord Godalming._

_“1 October._

“My Lord,

“We are at all times only too happy to meet your wishes. We beg, with

regard to the desire of your Lordship, expressed by Mr. Harker on your

behalf, to supply the following information concerning the sale and

purchase of No. 347, Piccadilly. The original vendors are the executors

of the late Mr. Archibald Winter-Suffield. The purchaser is a foreign

nobleman, Count de Ville, who effected the purchase himself paying the

purchase money in notes ‘over the counter,’ if your Lordship will pardon

us using so vulgar an expression. Beyond this we know nothing whatever

of him.

“We are, my Lord,

“Your Lordship’s humble servants,

“MITCHELL, SONS & CANDY.”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_2 October._--I placed a man in the corridor last night, and told him to

make an accurate note of any sound he might hear from Renfield’s room,

and gave him instructions that if there should be anything strange he

was to call me. After dinner, when we had all gathered round the fire

in the study--Mrs. Harker having gone to bed--we discussed the attempts

and discoveries of the day. Harker was the only one who had any result,

and we are in great hopes that his clue may be an important one.

Before going to bed I went round to the patient’s room and looked in

through the observation trap. He was sleeping soundly, and his heart

rose and fell with regular respiration.

This morning the man on duty reported to me that a little after midnight

he was restless and kept saying his prayers somewhat loudly. I asked him

if that was all; he replied that it was all he heard. There was

something about his manner so suspicious that I asked him point blank if

he had been asleep. He denied sleep, but admitted to having “dozed” for

a while. It is too bad that men cannot be trusted unless they are

watched.

To-day Harker is out following up his clue, and Art and Quincey are

looking after horses. Godalming thinks that it will be well to have

horses always in readiness, for when we get the information which we

seek there will be no time to lose. We must sterilise all the imported

earth between sunrise and sunset; we shall thus catch the Count at his

weakest, and without a refuge to fly to. Van Helsing is off to the

British Museum looking up some authorities on ancient medicine. The old

physicians took account of things which their followers do not accept,

and the Professor is searching for witch and demon cures which may be

useful to us later.

I sometimes think we must be all mad and that we shall wake to sanity in

strait-waistcoats.

 * * * * *

_Later._--We have met again. We seem at last to be on the track, and our