addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam. “Shall we ask him why a man of sense and

education, and who has lived in the world, is ill-qualified to recommend

himself to strangers?”

“I can answer your question,” said Fitzwilliam, “without applying to

him. It is because he will not give himself the trouble.”

“I certainly have not the talent which some people possess,” said Darcy,

“of conversing easily with those I have never seen before. I cannot

catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their

concerns, as I often see done.”

“My fingers,” said Elizabeth, “do not move over this instrument in the

masterly manner which I see so many women’s do. They have not the same

force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression. But then I

have always supposed it to be my own fault--because I would not take

the trouble of practising. It is not that I do not believe _my_ fingers

as capable as any other woman’s of superior execution.”

Darcy smiled and said, “You are perfectly right. You have employed your

time much better. No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can

think anything wanting. We neither of us perform to strangers.”

Here they were interrupted by Lady Catherine, who called out to know

what they were talking of. Elizabeth immediately began playing again.

Lady Catherine approached, and, after listening for a few minutes, said

to Darcy,--

“Miss Bennet would not play at all amiss if she practised more, and

could have the advantage of a London master. She has a very good notion

of fingering, though her taste is not equal to Anne’s. Anne would have

been a delightful performer, had her health allowed her to learn.”

Elizabeth looked at Darcy, to see how cordially he assented to his

cousin’s praise: but neither at that moment nor at any other could she

discern any symptom of love; and from the whole of his behaviour to Miss

De Bourgh she derived this comfort for Miss Bingley, that he might have

been just as likely to marry _her_, had she been his relation.

Lady Catherine continued her remarks on Elizabeth’s performance, mixing

with them many instructions on execution and taste. Elizabeth received

them with all the forbearance of civility; and at the request of the

gentlemen remained at the instrument till her Ladyship’s carriage was

ready to take them all home.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XXXII.

[Illustration]

Elizabeth was sitting by herself the next morning, and writing to Jane,

while Mrs. Collins and Maria were gone on business into the village,

when she was startled by a ring at the door, the certain signal of a

visitor. As she had heard no carriage, she thought it not unlikely to be

Lady Catherine; and under that apprehension was putting away her

half-finished letter, that she might escape all impertinent questions,

when the door opened, and to her very great surprise Mr. Darcy, and Mr.

Darcy only, entered the room.

He seemed astonished too on finding her alone, and apologized for his

intrusion, by letting her know that he had understood all the ladies to

be within.

They then sat down, and when her inquiries after Rosings were made,

seemed in danger of sinking into total silence. It was absolutely

necessary, therefore, to think of something; and in this emergency

recollecting _when_ she had seen him last in Hertfordshire, and feeling

curious to know what he would say on the subject of their hasty

departure, she observed,--

“How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last November, Mr. Darcy!

It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr. Bingley to see you

all after him so soon; for, if I recollect right, he went but the day

before. He and his sisters were well, I hope, when you left London?”

“Perfectly so, I thank you.”

She found that she was to receive no other answer; and, after a short

pause, added,--

“I think I have understood that Mr. Bingley has not much idea of ever

returning to Netherfield again?”

“I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend

very little of his time there in future. He has many friends, and he is

at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually

increasing.”

“If he means to be but little at Netherfield, it would be better for the

neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we

might possibly get a settled family there. But, perhaps, Mr. Bingley did

not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as

for his own, and we must expect him to keep or quit it on the same

principle.”

“I should not be surprised,” said Darcy, “if he were to give it up as

soon as any eligible purchase offers.”

Elizabeth made no answer. She was afraid of talking longer of his

friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to leave the

trouble of finding a subject to him.