Arthur Dimmesdale gazed into Hester’s face with a look in which hope

and joy shone out, indeed, but with fear betwixt them, and a kind of

horror at her boldness, who had spoken what he vaguely hinted at, but

dared not speak.

But Hester Prynne, with a mind of native courage and activity, and for

so long a period not merely estranged, but outlawed, from society, had

habituated herself to such latitude of speculation as was altogether

foreign to the clergyman. She had wandered, without rule or guidance,

in a moral wilderness; as vast, as intricate and shadowy, as the

untamed forest, amid the gloom of which they were now holding a

colloquy that was to decide their fate. Her intellect and heart had

their home, as it were, in desert places, where she roamed as freely

as the wild Indian in his woods. For years past she had looked from

this estranged point of view at human institutions, and whatever

priests or legislators had established; criticising all with hardly

more reverence than the Indian would feel for the clerical band, the

judicial robe, the pillory, the gallows, the fireside, or the church.

The tendency of her fate and fortunes had been to set her free. The

scarlet letter was her passport into regions where other women dared

not tread. Shame, Despair, Solitude! These had been her

teachers,—stern and wild ones,—and they had made her strong, but

taught her much amiss.

The minister, on the other hand, had never gone through an experience

calculated to lead him beyond the scope of generally received laws;

although, in a single instance, he had so fearfully transgressed one

of the most sacred of them. But this had been a sin of passion, not of

principle, nor even purpose. Since that wretched epoch, he had

watched, with morbid zeal and minuteness, not his acts,—for those it

was easy to arrange,—but each breath of emotion, and his every

thought. At the head of the social system, as the clergymen of that

day stood, he was only the more trammelled by its regulations, its

principles, and even its prejudices. As a priest, the framework of his

order inevitably hemmed him in. As a man who had once sinned, but who

kept his conscience all alive and painfully sensitive by the fretting

of an unhealed wound, he might have been supposed safer within the

line of virtue than if he had never sinned at all.

Thus, we seem to see that, as regarded Hester Prynne, the whole seven

years of outlaw and ignominy had been little other than a preparation

for this very hour. But Arthur Dimmesdale! Were such a man once more

to fall, what plea could be urged in extenuation of his crime? None;

unless it avail him somewhat, that he was broken down by long and

exquisite suffering; that his mind was darkened and confused by the

very remorse which harrowed it; that, between fleeing as an avowed

criminal, and remaining as a hypocrite, conscience might find it hard

to strike the balance; that it was human to avoid the peril of death

and infamy, and the inscrutable machinations of an enemy; that,

finally, to this poor pilgrim, on his dreary and desert path, faint,

sick, miserable, there appeared a glimpse of human affection and

sympathy, a new life, and a true one, in exchange for the heavy doom

which he was now expiating. And be the stern and sad truth spoken,

that the breach which guilt has once made into the human soul is

never, in this mortal state, repaired. It may be watched and guarded;

so that the enemy shall not force his way again into the citadel, and

might even, in his subsequent assaults, select some other avenue, in

preference to that where he had formerly succeeded. But there is still

the ruined wall, and, near it, the stealthy tread of the foe that

would win over again his unforgotten triumph.

The struggle, if there were one, need not be described. Let it

suffice, that the clergyman resolved to flee, and not alone.

“If, in all these past seven years,” thought he, “I could recall one

instant of peace or hope, I would yet endure, for the sake of that

earnest of Heaven’s mercy. But now,—since I am irrevocably

doomed,—wherefore should I not snatch the solace allowed to the

condemned culprit before his execution? Or, if this be the path to a

better life, as Hester would persuade me, I surely give up no fairer

prospect by pursuing it! Neither can I any longer live without her

companionship; so powerful is she to sustain,—so tender to soothe! O

Thou to whom I dare not lift mine eyes, wilt Thou yet pardon me!”

“Thou wilt go!” said Hester, calmly, as he met her glance.

The decision once made, a glow of strange enjoyment threw its

flickering brightness over the trouble of his breast. It was the

exhilarating effect—upon a prisoner just escaped from the dungeon of

his own heart—of breathing the wild, free atmosphere of an

unredeemed, unchristianized, lawless region. His spirit rose, as it

were, with a bound, and attained a nearer prospect of the sky, than