of usual cheerfulness, but with no further attempt to distinguish

Elizabeth; and they parted at last with mutual civility, and possibly a

mutual desire of never meeting again.

When the party broke up, Lydia returned with Mrs. Forster to Meryton,

from whence they were to set out early the next morning. The separation

between her and her family was rather noisy than pathetic. Kitty was the

only one who shed tears; but she did weep from vexation and envy. Mrs.

Bennet was diffuse in her good wishes for the felicity of her daughter,

and impressive in her injunctions that she would not miss the

opportunity of enjoying herself as much as possible,--advice which there

was every reason to believe would be attended to; and, in the clamorous

happiness of Lydia herself in bidding farewell, the more gentle adieus

of her sisters were uttered without being heard.

[Illustration:

The arrival of the

Gardiners

]

CHAPTER XLII.

[Illustration]

Had Elizabeth’s opinion been all drawn from her own family, she could

not have formed a very pleasing picture of conjugal felicity or domestic

comfort. Her father, captivated by youth and beauty, and that appearance

of good-humour which youth and beauty generally give, had married a

woman whose weak understanding and illiberal mind had very early in

their marriage put an end to all real affection for her. Respect,

esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views of

domestic happiness were overthrown. But Mr. Bennet was not of a

disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which his own

imprudence had brought on in any of those pleasures which too often

console the unfortunate for their folly or their vice. He was fond of

the country and of books; and from these tastes had arisen his principal

enjoyments. To his wife he was very little otherwise indebted than as

her ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement. This is not

the sort of happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to his

wife; but where other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true

philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given.

Elizabeth, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of her

father’s behaviour as a husband. She had always seen it with pain; but

respecting his abilities, and grateful for his affectionate treatment of

herself, she endeavoured to forget what she could not overlook, and to

banish from her thoughts that continual breach of conjugal obligation

and decorum which, in exposing his wife to the contempt of her own

children, was so highly reprehensible. But she had never felt so

strongly as now the disadvantages which must attend the children of so

unsuitable a marriage, nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising

from so ill-judged a direction of talents--talents which, rightly used,

might at least have preserved the respectability of his daughters, even

if incapable of enlarging the mind of his wife.

When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham’s departure, she found little

other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment. Their parties

abroad were less varied than before; and at home she had a mother and

sister, whose constant repinings at the dulness of everything around

them threw a real gloom over their domestic circle; and, though Kitty

might in time regain her natural degree of sense, since the disturbers

of her brain were removed, her other sister, from whose disposition

greater evil might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all her

folly and assurance, by a situation of such double danger as a

watering-place and a camp. Upon the whole, therefore, she found, what

has been sometimes found before, that an event to which she had looked

forward with impatient desire, did not, in taking place, bring all the

satisfaction she had promised herself. It was consequently necessary to

name some other period for the commencement of actual felicity; to have

some other point on which her wishes and hopes might be fixed, and by

again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation, console herself for the

present, and prepare for another disappointment. Her tour to the Lakes

was now the object of her happiest thoughts: it was her best consolation

for all the uncomfortable hours which the discontentedness of her mother

and Kitty made inevitable; and could she have included Jane in the

scheme, every part of it would have been perfect.

“But it is fortunate,” thought she, “that I have something to wish for.

Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain.

But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my

sister’s absence, I may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of

pleasure realized. A scheme of which every part promises delight can

never be successful; and general disappointment is only warded off by

the defence of some little peculiar vexation.”

When Lydia went away she promised to write very often and very minutely

to her mother and Kitty; but her letters were always long expected, and

always very short. Those to her mother contained little else than that

they were just returned from the library, where such and such officers

had attended them, and where she had seen such beautiful ornaments as

made her quite wild; that she had a new gown, or a new parasol, which