 Ben. And what too?

 Mer. Nay, and there were two such, we should haue

none shortly, for one would kill the other: thou, why thou

wilt quarrell with a man that hath a haire more, or a haire

lesse in his beard, then thou hast: thou wilt quarrell with a

man for cracking Nuts, hauing no other reason, but because

thou hast hasell eyes: what eye, but such an eye,

would spie out such a quarrell? thy head is full of quarrels,

as an egge is full of meat, and yet thy head hath bin

beaten as addle as an egge for quarreling: thou hast quarrel'd

with a man for coffing in the street, because he hath

wakened thy Dog that hath laine asleepe in the Sun. Did'st

thou not fall out with a Tailor for wearing his new Doublet

before Easter? with another, for tying his new shooes

with old Riband, and yet thou wilt Tutor me from quarrelling?

 Ben. And I were so apt to quarell as thou art, any man

should buy the Fee-simple of my life, for an houre and a

quarter

 Mer. The Fee-simple? O simple.

Enter Tybalt, Petruchio, and others.

 Ben. By my head here comes the Capulets

 Mer. By my heele I care not

 Tyb. Follow me close, for I will speake to them.

Gentlemen, Good den, a word with one of you

 Mer. And but one word with one of vs? couple it with

something, make it a word and a blow

 Tib. You shall find me apt inough to that sir, and you

will giue me occasion

 Mercu. Could you not take some occasion without

giuing?

 Tib. Mercutio thou consort'st with Romeo

 Mer. Consort? what dost thou make vs Minstrels? &

thou make Minstrels of vs, looke to heare nothing but discords:

heere's my fiddlesticke, heere's that shall make you

daunce. Come consort

 Ben. We talke here in the publike haunt of men,

Either withdraw vnto some priuate place,

Or reason coldly of your greeuances:

Or else depart, here all eies gaze on vs

 Mer. Mens eyes were made to looke, and let them gaze.

I will not budge for no mans pleasure I.

Enter Romeo.

 Tib. Well peace be with you sir, here comes my man

 Mer. But Ile be hang'd sir if he weare your Liuery.

Marry go before to field, heele be your follower,

Your worship in that sense, may call him man

 Tib. Romeo, the loue I beare thee, can affoord

No better terme then this: Thou art a Villaine

 Rom. Tibalt, the reason that I haue to loue thee,

Doth much excuse the appertaining rage

To such a greeting: Villaine am I none;

Therefore farewell, I see thou know'st me not

 Tib. Boy, this shall not excuse the iniuries

That thou hast done me, therefore turne and draw

 Rom. I do protest I neuer iniur'd thee,

But lou'd thee better then thou can'st deuise:

Till thou shalt know the reason of my loue,

And so good Capulet, which name I tender

As dearely as my owne, be satisfied

 Mer. O calme, dishonourable, vile submission:

Alla stucatho carries it away.

Tybalt, you Rat-catcher, will you walke?

 Tib. What wouldst thou haue with me?

 Mer. Good King of Cats, nothing but one of your nine

liues, that I meane to make bold withall, and as you shall

vse me hereafter dry beate the rest of the eight. Will you