treated him as we think Mr. Nestor has been treated. I guess that clew

isn't going to amount to much."

"It may!" insisted Jackson. "They may have had Mr. Nestor in the car

all the while--concealed in the back you know. We've got to find out

more about these men and their auto, Tom."

"Well, yes, perhaps we have. But how?"

"Station some one at the shack, or at the beginning of the private

road. The men may come back."

"That's so--they may. We'll do that!" cried the young inventor. "We

must tell the police and Mr. Nestor's folks what we have learned. How

can we get back to Shopton in a hurry?" he asked the farmer.

"Well, I can drive you to the railroad station," was the answer.

"Thank you," remarked Tom. "We'll accept your offer. And as soon as we

get back we must send some one from the shop to stand guard over the

airship," he added in an aside to Jackson. "Those file fellows may come

back."

"That's so, we can't take any chances."

The farmer soon had his team at the door, and, after they had had a

hasty but satisfying supper at the farmhouse, the son drove Tom and

Jackson several miles to a railroad station, where they could catch a

train for Shopton.

In due season Tom's home was reached. He intended to stop but a minute,

to assure his father that everything was all right, and then get out

his speedy runabout to go to see Mary, to tell her the news.

But when Tom sought his father in the library, he was told that there

was a visitor in the house.

"Tom," said his father, "this gentleman is from Washington. He wants to

arrange for a government test of your silent airship. I told him I

thought you were about ready for it."

"A government test!" cried Tom. "Why, I didn't think the government

even knew I was working on such an idea!" Tom was greatly surprised.

CHAPTER XXIV

IN THE MOONLIGHT

With a reassuring smile the visitor from Washington looked at Tom Swift.

"The government officials," he said, "know more than some people give

them credit for--especially in these war times. Our intelligence bureau

and secret service has been much enlarged of late. But don't be

alarmed, Mr. Swift," went on the caller, whose name was Mr. Blair

Terrill. "Your secret is safe with the government, but I think the time

is ripe to use it now--that is, if you have perfected it to a point

where we can use it."

"Yes," answered Tom slowly, "the invention is practically finished and

it is a success, except for a few minor matters that will not take long

to complete.

"Our accident this afternoon had nothing to do with the efficiency of

the silencer," Tom went on. "It was deliberately damaged by some spy.

I'll take that up later. That I am interested to know how you heard of

my Air Scout, as I call it."

"Well, we have agents, you know, watching all the inventors who have

helped us in times past, and we haven't forgotten your giant cannon or

big searchlight. I might say, to end your curiosity and lull your

suspicions, that your friend, Ned Newton, who has been doing such good

Liberty Bond work, informed us of your progress on the silent motor."

"Oh, so it was Ned!" exclaimed Tom.

"Yes. He told us the time was about ripe for us to make you an offer

for your machine. I think we can use it to great advantage in scout

work on the western front," went on the agent, and he soon convinced

Tom that when it came to a knowledge of airships, he had some very

pertinent facts at his disposal.

"When can you give me a test?" Mr. Terrill asked Tom.

"As soon as I can get my craft back to the shop and fit on a new outer

case. That won't take long, as I have some spare ones. But I must help

the Nestors," he went on, speaking to his father. "I didn't mention it

over the wire," he added, "but we've found in the cabin a clew to the