_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_17 September._--I was engaged after dinner in my study posting up my

books, which, through press of other work and the many visits to Lucy,

had fallen sadly into arrear. Suddenly the door was burst open, and in

rushed my patient, with his face distorted with passion. I was

thunderstruck, for such a thing as a patient getting of his own accord

into the Superintendent’s study is almost unknown. Without an instant’s

pause he made straight at me. He had a dinner-knife in his hand, and,

as I saw he was dangerous, I tried to keep the table between us. He was

too quick and too strong for me, however; for before I could get my

balance he had struck at me and cut my left wrist rather severely.

Before he could strike again, however, I got in my right and he was

sprawling on his back on the floor. My wrist bled freely, and quite a

little pool trickled on to the carpet. I saw that my friend was not

intent on further effort, and occupied myself binding up my wrist,

keeping a wary eye on the prostrate figure all the time. When the

attendants rushed in, and we turned our attention to him, his employment

positively sickened me. He was lying on his belly on the floor licking

up, like a dog, the blood which had fallen from my wounded wrist. He was

easily secured, and, to my surprise, went with the attendants quite

placidly, simply repeating over and over again: “The blood is the life!

The blood is the life!”

I cannot afford to lose blood just at present; I have lost too much of

late for my physical good, and then the prolonged strain of Lucy’s

illness and its horrible phases is telling on me. I am over-excited and

weary, and I need rest, rest, rest. Happily Van Helsing has not summoned

me, so I need not forego my sleep; to-night I could not well do without

it.

_Telegram, Van Helsing, Antwerp, to Seward, Carfax._

(Sent to Carfax, Sussex, as no county given; delivered late by

twenty-two hours.)

“_17 September._--Do not fail to be at Hillingham to-night. If not

watching all the time frequently, visit and see that flowers are as

placed; very important; do not fail. Shall be with you as soon as

possible after arrival.”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_18 September._--Just off for train to London. The arrival of Van

Helsing’s telegram filled me with dismay. A whole night lost, and I know

by bitter experience what may happen in a night. Of course it is

possible that all may be well, but what _may_ have happened? Surely

there is some horrible doom hanging over us that every possible accident

should thwart us in all we try to do. I shall take this cylinder with

me, and then I can complete my entry on Lucy’s phonograph.

_Memorandum left by Lucy Westenra._

_17 September. Night._--I write this and leave it to be seen, so that no

one may by any chance get into trouble through me. This is an exact

record of what took place to-night. I feel I am dying of weakness, and

have barely strength to write, but it must be done if I die in the

doing.

I went to bed as usual, taking care that the flowers were placed as Dr.

Van Helsing directed, and soon fell asleep.

I was waked by the flapping at the window, which had begun after that

sleep-walking on the cliff at Whitby when Mina saved me, and which now I

know so well. I was not afraid, but I did wish that Dr. Seward was in

the next room--as Dr. Van Helsing said he would be--so that I might have

called him. I tried to go to sleep, but could not. Then there came to me

the old fear of sleep, and I determined to keep awake. Perversely sleep

would try to come then when I did not want it; so, as I feared to be

alone, I opened my door and called out: “Is there anybody there?” There

was no answer. I was afraid to wake mother, and so closed my door again.

Then outside in the shrubbery I heard a sort of howl like a dog’s, but

more fierce and deeper. I went to the window and looked out, but could

see nothing, except a big bat, which had evidently been buffeting its

wings against the window. So I went back to bed again, but determined

not to go to sleep. Presently the door opened, and mother looked in;

seeing by my moving that I was not asleep, came in, and sat by me. She