It’s a possible thing? But saving the race is nothing in itself. As I

say, that’s only being rats. It’s saving our knowledge and adding to it

is the thing. There men like you come in. There’s books, there’s

models. We must make great safe places down deep, and get all the books

we can; not novels and poetry swipes, but ideas, science books. That’s

where men like you come in. We must go to the British Museum and pick

all those books through. Especially we must keep up our science—learn

more. We must watch these Martians. Some of us must go as spies. When

it’s all working, perhaps I will. Get caught, I mean. And the great

thing is, we must leave the Martians alone. We mustn’t even steal. If

we get in their way, we clear out. We must show them we mean no harm.

Yes, I know. But they’re intelligent things, and they won’t hunt us

down if they have all they want, and think we’re just harmless vermin.”

The artilleryman paused and laid a brown hand upon my arm.

“After all, it may not be so much we may have to learn before—Just

imagine this: four or five of their fighting machines suddenly starting

off—Heat-Rays right and left, and not a Martian in ’em. Not a Martian

in ’em, but men—men who have learned the way how. It may be in my time,

even—those men. Fancy having one of them lovely things, with its

Heat-Ray wide and free! Fancy having it in control! What would it

matter if you smashed to smithereens at the end of the run, after a

bust like that? I reckon the Martians’ll open their beautiful eyes!

Can’t you see them, man? Can’t you see them hurrying, hurrying—puffing

and blowing and hooting to their other mechanical affairs? Something

out of gear in every case. And swish, bang, rattle, swish! Just as they

are fumbling over it, _swish_ comes the Heat-Ray, and, behold! man has

come back to his own.”

For a while the imaginative daring of the artilleryman, and the tone of

assurance and courage he assumed, completely dominated my mind. I

believed unhesitatingly both in his forecast of human destiny and in

the practicability of his astonishing scheme, and the reader who thinks

me susceptible and foolish must contrast his position, reading steadily

with all his thoughts about his subject, and mine, crouching fearfully

in the bushes and listening, distracted by apprehension. We talked in

this manner through the early morning time, and later crept out of the

bushes, and, after scanning the sky for Martians, hurried precipitately

to the house on Putney Hill where he had made his lair. It was the coal

cellar of the place, and when I saw the work he had spent a week

upon—it was a burrow scarcely ten yards long, which he designed to

reach to the main drain on Putney Hill—I had my first inkling of the

gulf between his dreams and his powers. Such a hole I could have dug in

a day. But I believed in him sufficiently to work with him all that

morning until past midday at his digging. We had a garden barrow and

shot the earth we removed against the kitchen range. We refreshed

ourselves with a tin of mock-turtle soup and wine from the neighbouring

pantry. I found a curious relief from the aching strangeness of the

world in this steady labour. As we worked, I turned his project over in

my mind, and presently objections and doubts began to arise; but I

worked there all the morning, so glad was I to find myself with a

purpose again. After working an hour I began to speculate on the

distance one had to go before the cloaca was reached, the chances we

had of missing it altogether. My immediate trouble was why we should

dig this long tunnel, when it was possible to get into the drain at

once down one of the manholes, and work back to the house. It seemed to

me, too, that the house was inconveniently chosen, and required a

needless length of tunnel. And just as I was beginning to face these

things, the artilleryman stopped digging, and looked at me.