some day the bishops must get together and see about breeding up a new

class of curates, who don’t take supper, no matter how they may be

pressed to, and who will know when girls are tired. Lucy is asleep and

breathing softly. She has more colour in her cheeks than usual, and

looks, oh, so sweet. If Mr. Holmwood fell in love with her seeing her

only in the drawing-room, I wonder what he would say if he saw her now.

Some of the “New Women” writers will some day start an idea that men and

women should be allowed to see each other asleep before proposing or

accepting. But I suppose the New Woman won’t condescend in future to

accept; she will do the proposing herself. And a nice job she will make

of it, too! There’s some consolation in that. I am so happy to-night,

because dear Lucy seems better. I really believe she has turned the

corner, and that we are over her troubles with dreaming. I should be

quite happy if I only knew if Jonathan.... God bless and keep him.

 * * * * *

_11 August, 3 a. m._--Diary again. No sleep now, so I may as well write.

I am too agitated to sleep. We have had such an adventure, such an

agonising experience. I fell asleep as soon as I had closed my diary....

Suddenly I became broad awake, and sat up, with a horrible sense of fear

upon me, and of some feeling of emptiness around me. The room was dark,

so I could not see Lucy’s bed; I stole across and felt for her. The bed

was empty. I lit a match and found that she was not in the room. The

door was shut, but not locked, as I had left it. I feared to wake her

mother, who has been more than usually ill lately, so threw on some

clothes and got ready to look for her. As I was leaving the room it

struck me that the clothes she wore might give me some clue to her

dreaming intention. Dressing-gown would mean house; dress, outside.

Dressing-gown and dress were both in their places. “Thank God,” I said

to myself, “she cannot be far, as she is only in her nightdress.” I ran

downstairs and looked in the sitting-room. Not there! Then I looked in

all the other open rooms of the house, with an ever-growing fear

chilling my heart. Finally I came to the hall door and found it open. It

was not wide open, but the catch of the lock had not caught. The people

of the house are careful to lock the door every night, so I feared that

Lucy must have gone out as she was. There was no time to think of what

might happen; a vague, overmastering fear obscured all details. I took a

big, heavy shawl and ran out. The clock was striking one as I was in the

Crescent, and there was not a soul in sight. I ran along the North

Terrace, but could see no sign of the white figure which I expected. At

the edge of the West Cliff above the pier I looked across the harbour to

the East Cliff, in the hope or fear--I don’t know which--of seeing Lucy

in our favourite seat. There was a bright full moon, with heavy black,

driving clouds, which threw the whole scene into a fleeting diorama of

light and shade as they sailed across. For a moment or two I could see

nothing, as the shadow of a cloud obscured St. Mary’s Church and all

around it. Then as the cloud passed I could see the ruins of the abbey

coming into view; and as the edge of a narrow band of light as sharp as

a sword-cut moved along, the church and the churchyard became gradually

visible. Whatever my expectation was, it was not disappointed, for

there, on our favourite seat, the silver light of the moon struck a

half-reclining figure, snowy white. The coming of the cloud was too

quick for me to see much, for shadow shut down on light almost

immediately; but it seemed to me as though something dark stood behind

the seat where the white figure shone, and bent over it. What it was,

whether man or beast, I could not tell; I did not wait to catch another

glance, but flew down the steep steps to the pier and along by the

fish-market to the bridge, which was the only way to reach the East

Cliff. The town seemed as dead, for not a soul did I see; I rejoiced

that it was so, for I wanted no witness of poor Lucy’s condition. The

time and distance seemed endless, and my knees trembled and my breath