What is it else? a madnesse, most discreet,

A choking gall, and a preseruing sweet:

Farewell my Coze

 Ben. Soft I will goe along.

And if you leaue me so, you do me wrong

 Rom. Tut I haue lost my selfe, I am not here,

This is not Romeo, hee's some other where

 Ben. Tell me in sadnesse, who is that you loue?

 Rom. What shall I grone and tell thee?

 Ben. Grone, why no: but sadly tell me who

 Rom. A sicke man in sadnesse makes his will:

A word ill vrg'd to one that is so ill:

In sadnesse Cozin, I do loue a woman

 Ben. I aym'd so neare, when I suppos'd you lou'd

 Rom. A right good marke man, and shee's faire I loue

 Ben. A right faire marke, faire Coze, is soonest hit

 Rom. Well in that hit you misse, sheel not be hit

With Cupids arrow, she hath Dians wit:

And in strong proofe of chastity well arm'd:

From loues weake childish Bow, she liues vncharm'd.

Shee will not stay the siege of louing tearmes,

Nor bid th' encounter of assailing eyes.

Nor open her lap to Sainct-seducing Gold:

O she is rich in beautie, onely poore,

That when she dies, with beautie dies her store

 Ben. Then she hath sworne, that she will still liue chast?

 Rom. She hath, and in that sparing make huge wast?

For beauty steru'd with her seuerity,

Cuts beauty off from all posteritie.

She is too faire, too wise: wisely too faire,

To merit blisse by making me dispaire:

She hath forsworne to loue, and in that vow

Do I liue dead, that liue to tell it now

 Ben. Be rul'd by me, forget to thinke of her

 Rom. O teach me how I should forget to thinke

 Ben. By giuing liberty vnto thine eyes,

Examine other beauties,

 Ro. 'Tis the way to cal hers (exquisit) in question more,

These happy maskes that kisse faire Ladies browes,

Being blacke, puts vs in mind they hide the faire:

He that is strooken blind, cannot forget

The precious treasure of his eye-sight lost:

Shew me a Mistresse that is passing faire,

What doth her beauty serue but as a note,

Where I may read who past that passing faire.

Farewell thou can'st not teach me to forget,

 Ben. Ile pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.

Exeunt.

Enter Capulet, Countie Paris, and the Clowne.

 Capu. Mountague is bound as well as I,

In penalty alike, and 'tis not hard I thinke,

For men so old as wee, to keepe the peace

 Par. Of Honourable reckoning are you both,

And pittie 'tis you liu'd at ods so long:

But now my Lord, what say you to my sute?

 Capu. But saying ore what I haue said before,

My Child is yet a stranger in the world,

Shee hath not seene the change of fourteene yeares,

Let two more Summers wither in their pride,

Ere we may thinke her ripe to be a Bride

 Pari. Younger then she, are happy mothers made

 Capu. And too soone mar'd are those so early made:

Earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she,

Shee's the hopefull Lady of my earth:

But wooe her gentle Paris, get her heart,

My will to her consent, is but a part,

And shee agree, within her scope of choise,

Lyes my consent, and faire according voice:

This night I hold an old accustom'd Feast,

Whereto I haue inuited many a Guest,

Such as I loue, and you among the store,

One more, most welcome makes my number more:

At my poore house, looke to behold this night,

Earth-treading starres, that make darke heauen light,

Such comfort as do lusty young men feele,

When well apparrel'd Aprill on the heele