said, grew up between these two cultivated minds, which had as wide a

field as the whole sphere of human thought and study, to meet upon;

they discussed every topic of ethics and religion, of public affairs

and private character; they talked much, on both sides, of matters

that seemed personal to themselves; and yet no secret, such as the

physician fancied must exist there, ever stole out of the minister’s

consciousness into his companion’s ear. The latter had his suspicions,

indeed, that even the nature of Mr. Dimmesdale’s bodily disease had

never fairly been revealed to him. It was a strange reserve!

After a time, at a hint from Roger Chillingworth, the friends of Mr.

Dimmesdale effected an arrangement by which the two were lodged in the

same house; so that every ebb and flow of the minister’s life-tide

might pass under the eye of his anxious and attached physician. There

was much joy throughout the town, when this greatly desirable object

was attained. It was held to be the best possible measure for the

young clergyman’s welfare; unless, indeed, as often urged by such as

felt authorized to do so, he had selected some one of the many

blooming damsels, spiritually devoted to him, to become his devoted

wife. This latter step, however, there was no present prospect that

Arthur Dimmesdale would be prevailed upon to take; he rejected all

suggestions of the kind, as if priestly celibacy were one of his

articles of church-discipline. Doomed by his own choice, therefore, as

Mr. Dimmesdale so evidently was, to eat his unsavory morsel always at

another’s board, and endure the life-long chill which must be his lot

who seeks to warm himself only at another’s fireside, it truly seemed

that this sagacious, experienced, benevolent old physician, with his

concord of paternal and reverential love for the young pastor, was the

very man, of all mankind, to be constantly within reach of his voice.

The new abode of the two friends was with a pious widow, of good

social rank, who dwelt in a house covering pretty nearly the site on

which the venerable structure of King’s Chapel has since been built.

It had the graveyard, originally Isaac Johnson’s home-field, on one

side, and so was well adapted to call up serious reflections, suited

to their respective employments, in both minister and man of physic.

The motherly care of the good widow assigned to Mr. Dimmesdale a front

apartment, with a sunny exposure, and heavy window-curtains, to create

a noontide shadow, when desirable. The walls were hung round with

tapestry, said to be from the Gobelin looms, and, at all events,

representing the Scriptural story of David and Bathsheba, and Nathan

the Prophet, in colors still unfaded, but which made the fair woman

of the scene almost as grimly picturesque as the woe-denouncing seer.

Here the pale clergyman piled up his library, rich with

parchment-bound folios of the Fathers, and the lore of Rabbis, and

monkish erudition, of which the Protestant divines, even while they

vilified and decried that class of writers, were yet constrained often

to avail themselves. On the other side of the house old Roger

Chillingworth arranged his study and laboratory; not such as a modern

man of science would reckon even tolerably complete, but provided with

a distilling apparatus, and the means of compounding drugs and

chemicals, which the practised alchemist knew well how to turn to

purpose. With such commodiousness of situation, these two learned

persons sat themselves down, each in his own domain, yet familiarly

passing from one apartment to the other, and bestowing a mutual and

not incurious inspection into one another’s business.

And the Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale’s best discerning friends, as we

have intimated, very reasonably imagined that the hand of Providence

had done all this, for the purpose—besought in so many public, and

domestic, and secret prayers—of restoring the young minister to

health. But—it must now be said—another portion of the community had

latterly begun to take its own view of the relation betwixt Mr.

Dimmesdale and the mysterious old physician. When an uninstructed

multitude attempts to see with its eyes, it is exceedingly apt to be

deceived. When, however, it forms its judgment, as it usually does, on

the intuitions of its great and warm heart, the conclusions thus

attained are often so profound and so unerring, as to possess the

character of truths supernaturally revealed. The people, in the case

of which we speak, could justify its prejudice against Roger

Chillingworth by no fact or argument worthy of serious refutation.

There was an aged handicraftsman, it is true, who had been a citizen

of London at the period of Sir Thomas Overbury’s murder, now some

thirty years agone; he testified to having seen the physician, under

some other name, which the narrator of the story had now forgotten, in

company with Doctor Forman, the famous old conjurer, who was

implicated in the affair of Overbury. Two or three individuals hinted,

that the man of skill, during his Indian captivity, had enlarged his

medical attainments by joining in the incantations of the savage

priests; who were universally acknowledged to be powerful enchanters,

often performing seemingly miraculous cures by their skill in the

black art. A large number—and many of these were persons of such

sober sense and practical observation that their opinions would have

been valuable, in other matters—affirmed that Roger Chillingworth’s

aspect had undergone a remarkable change while he had dwelt in town,

and especially since his abode with Mr. Dimmesdale. At first, his