at other times; his frame was not bent; nor did his hand rest

ominously upon his heart. Yet, if the clergyman were rightly viewed,

his strength seemed not of the body. It might be spiritual, and

imparted to him by angelic ministrations. It might be the exhilaration

of that potent cordial, which is distilled only in the furnace-glow of

earnest and long-continued thought. Or, perchance, his sensitive

temperament was invigorated by the loud and piercing music, that

swelled heavenward, and uplifted him on its ascending wave.

Nevertheless, so abstracted was his look, it might be questioned

whether Mr. Dimmesdale even heard the music. There was his body,

moving onward, and with an unaccustomed force. But where was his mind?

Far and deep in its own region, busying itself, with preternatural

activity, to marshal a procession of stately thoughts that were soon

to issue thence; and so he saw nothing, heard nothing, knew nothing,

of what was around him; but the spiritual element took up the feeble

frame, and carried it along, unconscious of the burden, and converting

it to spirit like itself. Men of uncommon intellect, who have grown

morbid, possess this occasional power of mighty effort, into which

they throw the life of many days, and then are lifeless for as many

more.

Hester Prynne, gazing steadfastly at the clergyman, felt a dreary

influence come over her, but wherefore or whence she knew not; unless

that he seemed so remote from her own sphere, and utterly beyond her

reach. One glance of recognition, she had imagined, must needs pass

between them. She thought of the dim forest, with its little dell of

solitude, and love, and anguish, and the mossy tree-trunk, where,

sitting hand in hand, they had mingled their sad and passionate talk

with the melancholy murmur of the brook. How deeply had they known

each other then! And was this the man? She hardly knew him now! He,

moving proudly past, enveloped, as it were, in the rich music, with

the procession of majestic and venerable fathers; he, so unattainable

in his worldly position, and still more so in that far vista of his

unsympathizing thoughts, through which she now beheld him! Her spirit

sank with the idea that all must have been a delusion, and that,

vividly as she had dreamed it, there could be no real bond betwixt the

clergyman and herself. And thus much of woman was there in Hester,

that she could scarcely forgive him,—least of all now, when the heavy

footstep of their approaching Fate might be heard, nearer, nearer,

nearer!—for being able so completely to withdraw himself from their

mutual world; while she groped darkly, and stretched forth her cold

hands, and found him not.

Pearl either saw and responded to her mother’s feelings, or herself

felt the remoteness and intangibility that had fallen around the

minister. While the procession passed, the child was uneasy,

fluttering up and down, like a bird on the point of taking flight.

When the whole had gone by, she looked up into Hester’s face.

“Mother,” said she, “was that the same minister that kissed me by the

brook?”

“Hold thy peace, dear little Pearl!” whispered her mother. “We must

not always talk in the market-place of what happens to us in the

forest.”

“I could not be sure that it was he; so strange he looked,” continued

the child. “Else I would have run to him, and bid him kiss me now,

before all the people; even as he did yonder among the dark old trees.

What would the minister have said, mother? Would he have clapped his

hand over his heart, and scowled on me, and bid me be gone?”

“What should he say, Pearl,” answered Hester, “save that it was no

time to kiss, and that kisses are not to be given in the market-place?

Well for thee, foolish child, that thou didst not speak to him!”

Another shade of the same sentiment, in reference to Mr. Dimmesdale,

was expressed by a person whose eccentricities—or insanity, as we

should term it—led her to do what few of the towns-people would have

ventured on; to begin a conversation with the wearer of the scarlet

letter, in public. It was Mistress Hibbins, who, arrayed in great

magnificence, with a triple ruff, a broidered stomacher, a gown of

rich velvet, and a gold-headed cane, had come forth to see the

procession. As this ancient lady had the renown (which subsequently

cost her no less a price than her life) of being a principal actor in

all the works of necromancy that were continually going forward, the

crowd gave way before her, and seemed to fear the touch of her

garment, as if it carried the plague among its gorgeous folds. Seen in

conjunction with Hester Prynne,—kindly as so many now felt towards

the latter,—the dread inspired by Mistress Hibbins was doubled, and

caused a general movement from that part of the market-place in which

the two women stood.

“Now, what mortal imagination could conceive it!” whispered the old