of fog at all, except where it lay round the wharf. However, the ship

went out on the ebb tide; and was doubtless by morning far down the

river mouth. She was by then, when they told us, well out to sea.

“And so, my dear Madam Mina, it is that we have to rest for a time, for

our enemy is on the sea, with the fog at his command, on his way to the

Danube mouth. To sail a ship takes time, go she never so quick; and when

we start we go on land more quick, and we meet him there. Our best hope

is to come on him when in the box between sunrise and sunset; for then

he can make no struggle, and we may deal with him as we should. There

are days for us, in which we can make ready our plan. We know all about

where he go; for we have seen the owner of the ship, who have shown us

invoices and all papers that can be. The box we seek is to be landed in

Varna, and to be given to an agent, one Ristics who will there present

his credentials; and so our merchant friend will have done his part.

When he ask if there be any wrong, for that so, he can telegraph and

have inquiry made at Varna, we say ‘no’; for what is to be done is not

for police or of the customs. It must be done by us alone and in our own

way.”

When Dr. Van Helsing had done speaking, I asked him if he were certain

that the Count had remained on board the ship. He replied: “We have the

best proof of that: your own evidence, when in the hypnotic trance this

morning.” I asked him again if it were really necessary that they should

pursue the Count, for oh! I dread Jonathan leaving me, and I know that

he would surely go if the others went. He answered in growing passion,

at first quietly. As he went on, however, he grew more angry and more

forceful, till in the end we could not but see wherein was at least some

of that personal dominance which made him so long a master amongst

men:--

“Yes, it is necessary--necessary--necessary! For your sake in the first,

and then for the sake of humanity. This monster has done much harm

already, in the narrow scope where he find himself, and in the short

time when as yet he was only as a body groping his so small measure in

darkness and not knowing. All this have I told these others; you, my

dear Madam Mina, will learn it in the phonograph of my friend John, or

in that of your husband. I have told them how the measure of leaving his

own barren land--barren of peoples--and coming to a new land where life

of man teems till they are like the multitude of standing corn, was the

work of centuries. Were another of the Un-Dead, like him, to try to do

what he has done, perhaps not all the centuries of the world that have

been, or that will be, could aid him. With this one, all the forces of

nature that are occult and deep and strong must have worked together in

some wondrous way. The very place, where he have been alive, Un-Dead for

all these centuries, is full of strangeness of the geologic and chemical

world. There are deep caverns and fissures that reach none know whither.

There have been volcanoes, some of whose openings still send out waters

of strange properties, and gases that kill or make to vivify. Doubtless,

there is something magnetic or electric in some of these combinations of

occult forces which work for physical life in strange way; and in

himself were from the first some great qualities. In a hard and warlike

time he was celebrate that he have more iron nerve, more subtle brain,

more braver heart, than any man. In him some vital principle have in

strange way found their utmost; and as his body keep strong and grow and

thrive, so his brain grow too. All this without that diabolic aid which

is surely to him; for it have to yield to the powers that come from,

and are, symbolic of good. And now this is what he is to us. He have

infect you--oh, forgive me, my dear, that I must say such; but it is for

good of you that I speak. He infect you in such wise, that even if he do

no more, you have only to live--to live in your own old, sweet way; and

so in time, death, which is of man’s common lot and with God’s sanction,

shall make you like to him. This must not be! We have sworn together

that it must not. Thus are we ministers of God’s own wish: that the

world, and men for whom His Son die, will not be given over to monsters,

whose very existence would defame Him. He have allowed us to redeem one

soul already, and we go out as the old knights of the Cross to redeem

more. Like them we shall travel towards the sunrise; and like them, if

we fall, we fall in good cause.” He paused and I said:--