go at once--here--now--this very hour--this very moment, if I may. Time

presses, and in our implied agreement with the old scytheman it is of

the essence of the contract. I am sure it is only necessary to put

before so admirable a practitioner as Dr. Seward so simple, yet so

momentous a wish, to ensure its fulfilment.” He looked at me keenly, and

seeing the negative in my face, turned to the others, and scrutinised

them closely. Not meeting any sufficient response, he went on:--

“Is it possible that I have erred in my supposition?”

“You have,” I said frankly, but at the same time, as I felt, brutally.

There was a considerable pause, and then he said slowly:--

“Then I suppose I must only shift my ground of request. Let me ask for

this concession--boon, privilege, what you will. I am content to implore

in such a case, not on personal grounds, but for the sake of others. I

am not at liberty to give you the whole of my reasons; but you may, I

assure you, take it from me that they are good ones, sound and

unselfish, and spring from the highest sense of duty. Could you look,

sir, into my heart, you would approve to the full the sentiments which

animate me. Nay, more, you would count me amongst the best and truest of

your friends.” Again he looked at us all keenly. I had a growing

conviction that this sudden change of his entire intellectual method was

but yet another form or phase of his madness, and so determined to let

him go on a little longer, knowing from experience that he would, like

all lunatics, give himself away in the end. Van Helsing was gazing at

him with a look of utmost intensity, his bushy eyebrows almost meeting

with the fixed concentration of his look. He said to Renfield in a tone

which did not surprise me at the time, but only when I thought of it

afterwards--for it was as of one addressing an equal:--

“Can you not tell frankly your real reason for wishing to be free

to-night? I will undertake that if you will satisfy even me--a stranger,

without prejudice, and with the habit of keeping an open mind--Dr.

Seward will give you, at his own risk and on his own responsibility, the

privilege you seek.” He shook his head sadly, and with a look of

poignant regret on his face. The Professor went on:--

“Come, sir, bethink yourself. You claim the privilege of reason in the

highest degree, since you seek to impress us with your complete

reasonableness. You do this, whose sanity we have reason to doubt, since

you are not yet released from medical treatment for this very defect. If

you will not help us in our effort to choose the wisest course, how can

we perform the duty which you yourself put upon us? Be wise, and help

us; and if we can we shall aid you to achieve your wish.” He still shook

his head as he said:--

“Dr. Van Helsing, I have nothing to say. Your argument is complete, and

if I were free to speak I should not hesitate a moment; but I am not my

own master in the matter. I can only ask you to trust me. If I am

refused, the responsibility does not rest with me.” I thought it was now

time to end the scene, which was becoming too comically grave, so I went

towards the door, simply saying:--

“Come, my friends, we have work to do. Good-night.”

As, however, I got near the door, a new change came over the patient. He

moved towards me so quickly that for the moment I feared that he was

about to make another homicidal attack. My fears, however, were

groundless, for he held up his two hands imploringly, and made his

petition in a moving manner. As he saw that the very excess of his

emotion was militating against him, by restoring us more to our old

relations, he became still more demonstrative. I glanced at Van Helsing,

and saw my conviction reflected in his eyes; so I became a little more

fixed in my manner, if not more stern, and motioned to him that his

efforts were unavailing. I had previously seen something of the same

constantly growing excitement in him when he had to make some request of

which at the time he had thought much, such, for instance, as when he

wanted a cat; and I was prepared to see the collapse into the same

sullen acquiescence on this occasion. My expectation was not realised,

for, when he found that his appeal would not be successful, he got into

quite a frantic condition. He threw himself on his knees, and held up

his hands, wringing them in plaintive supplication, and poured forth a

torrent of entreaty, with the tears rolling down his cheeks, and his

whole face and form expressive of the deepest emotion:--

“Let me entreat you, Dr. Seward, oh, let me implore you, to let me out

of this house at once. Send me away how you will and where you will;