of the bad angel, who would fain have persuaded the struggling woman,

as yet only half his victim, that the outward guise of purity was but

a lie, and that, if truth were everywhere to be shown, a scarlet

letter would blaze forth on many a bosom besides Hester Prynne’s? Or,

must she receive those intimations—so obscure, yet so distinct—as

truth? In all her miserable experience, there was nothing else so

awful and so loathsome as this sense. It perplexed, as well as shocked

her, by the irreverent inopportuneness of the occasions that brought

it into vivid action. Sometimes the red infamy upon her breast would

give a sympathetic throb, as she passed near a venerable minister or

magistrate, the model of piety and justice, to whom that age of

antique reverence looked up, as to a mortal man in fellowship with

angels. “What evil thing is at hand?” would Hester say to herself.

Lifting her reluctant eyes, there would be nothing human within the

scope of view, save the form of this earthly saint! Again, a mystic

sisterhood would contumaciously assert itself, as she met the

sanctified frown of some matron, who, according to the rumor of all

tongues, had kept cold snow within her bosom throughout life. That

unsunned snow in the matron’s bosom, and the burning shame on Hester

Prynne’s,—what had the two in common? Or, once more, the electric

thrill would give her warning,—“Behold, Hester, here is a

companion!”—and, looking up, she would detect the eyes of a young

maiden glancing at the scarlet letter, shyly and aside, and quickly

averted with a faint, chill crimson in her cheeks; as if her purity

were somewhat sullied by that momentary glance. O Fiend, whose

talisman was that fatal symbol, wouldst thou leave nothing, whether in

youth or age, for this poor sinner to revere?—such loss of faith is

ever one of the saddest results of sin. Be it accepted as a proof that

all was not corrupt in this poor victim of her own frailty, and man’s

hard law, that Hester Prynne yet struggled to believe that no

fellow-mortal was guilty like herself.

The vulgar, who, in those dreary old times, were always contributing a

grotesque horror to what interested their imaginations, had a story

about the scarlet letter which we might readily work up into a

terrific legend. They averred, that the symbol was not mere scarlet

cloth, tinged in an earthly dye-pot, but was red-hot with infernal

fire, and could be seen glowing all alight, whenever Hester Prynne

walked abroad in the night-time. And we must needs say, it seared

Hester’s bosom so deeply, that perhaps there was more truth in the

rumor than our modern incredulity may be inclined to admit.

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 VI.

 PEARL.

[Illustration]

We have as yet hardly spoken of the infant; that little creature,

whose innocent life had sprung, by the inscrutable decree of

Providence, a lovely and immortal flower, out of the rank luxuriance

of a guilty passion. How strange it seemed to the sad woman, as she

watched the growth, and the beauty that became every day more

brilliant, and the intelligence that threw its quivering sunshine over

the tiny features of this child! Her Pearl!—For so had Hester called

her; not as a name expressive of her aspect, which had nothing of the

calm, white, unimpassioned lustre that would be indicated by the

comparison. But she named the infant “Pearl,” as being of great

price,—purchased with all she had,—her mother’s only treasure! How

strange, indeed! Man had marked this woman’s sin by a scarlet letter,

which had such potent and disastrous efficacy that no human sympathy

could reach her, save it were sinful like herself. God, as a direct

consequence of the sin which man thus punished, had given her a lovely

child, whose place was on that same dishonored bosom, to connect her

parent forever with the race and descent of mortals, and to be finally

a blessed soul in heaven! Yet these thoughts affected Hester Prynne

less with hope than apprehension. She knew that her deed had been

evil; she could have no faith, therefore, that its result would be

good. Day after day, she looked fearfully into the child’s expanding

nature, ever dreading to detect some dark and wild peculiarity, that

should correspond with the guiltiness to which she owed her being.

Certainly, there was no physical defect. By its perfect shape, its

vigor, and its natural dexterity in the use of all its untried limbs,

the infant was worthy to have been brought forth in Eden; worthy to

have been left there, to be the plaything of the angels, after the

world’s first parents were driven out. The child had a native grace

which does not invariably coexist with faultless beauty; its attire,

however simple, always impressed the beholder as if it were the very