lose an hour. I hold over telegram to Holmwood till have seen you.”

CHAPTER X

_Letter, Dr. Seward to Hon. Arthur Holmwood._

“_6 September._

“My dear Art,--

“My news to-day is not so good. Lucy this morning had gone back a bit.

There is, however, one good thing which has arisen from it; Mrs.

Westenra was naturally anxious concerning Lucy, and has consulted me

professionally about her. I took advantage of the opportunity, and told

her that my old master, Van Helsing, the great specialist, was coming to

stay with me, and that I would put her in his charge conjointly with

myself; so now we can come and go without alarming her unduly, for a

shock to her would mean sudden death, and this, in Lucy’s weak

condition, might be disastrous to her. We are hedged in with

difficulties, all of us, my poor old fellow; but, please God, we shall

come through them all right. If any need I shall write, so that, if you

do not hear from me, take it for granted that I am simply waiting for

news. In haste

“Yours ever,

“JOHN SEWARD.”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_7 September._--The first thing Van Helsing said to me when we met at

Liverpool Street was:--

“Have you said anything to our young friend the lover of her?”

“No,” I said. “I waited till I had seen you, as I said in my telegram. I

wrote him a letter simply telling him that you were coming, as Miss

Westenra was not so well, and that I should let him know if need be.”

“Right, my friend,” he said, “quite right! Better he not know as yet;

perhaps he shall never know. I pray so; but if it be needed, then he

shall know all. And, my good friend John, let me caution you. You deal

with the madmen. All men are mad in some way or the other; and inasmuch

as you deal discreetly with your madmen, so deal with God’s madmen,

too--the rest of the world. You tell not your madmen what you do nor why

you do it; you tell them not what you think. So you shall keep knowledge

in its place, where it may rest--where it may gather its kind around it

and breed. You and I shall keep as yet what we know here, and here.” He

touched me on the heart and on the forehead, and then touched himself

the same way. “I have for myself thoughts at the present. Later I shall

unfold to you.”

“Why not now?” I asked. “It may do some good; we may arrive at some

decision.” He stopped and looked at me, and said:--

“My friend John, when the corn is grown, even before it has

ripened--while the milk of its mother-earth is in him, and the sunshine

has not yet begun to paint him with his gold, the husbandman he pull the

ear and rub him between his rough hands, and blow away the green chaff,

and say to you: ‘Look! he’s good corn; he will make good crop when the

time comes.’” I did not see the application, and told him so. For reply

he reached over and took my ear in his hand and pulled it playfully, as

he used long ago to do at lectures, and said: “The good husbandman tell

you so then because he knows, but not till then. But you do not find the

good husbandman dig up his planted corn to see if he grow; that is for

the children who play at husbandry, and not for those who take it as of

the work of their life. See you now, friend John? I have sown my corn,

and Nature has her work to do in making it sprout; if he sprout at all,

there’s some promise; and I wait till the ear begins to swell.” He broke

off, for he evidently saw that I understood. Then he went on, and very

gravely:--

“You were always a careful student, and your case-book was ever more

full than the rest. You were only student then; now you are master, and

I trust that good habit have not fail. Remember, my friend, that

knowledge is stronger than memory, and we should not trust the weaker.

Even if you have not kept the good practise, let me tell you that this

case of our dear miss is one that may be--mind, I say _may be_--of such

interest to us and others that all the rest may not make him kick the

beam, as your peoples say. Take then good note of it. Nothing is too

small. I counsel you, put down in record even your doubts and surmises.