are up to. It looks suspicious to me. That is, unless they're some of

the Secret Service men, and have made a capture," he added to Mr.

Terrill.

"Those aren't any of Uncle Sam's men," declared the agent. "That is,

unless the bound one is. I can't see him very well. Better go down,

and we'll see if we can surprise them."

"My plan," voiced Tom.

Quickly he shifted the rudder, and then, shutting off the motor, as he

wanted to volplane down, he headed his craft for an open spot that

showed in the bright moonlight. By this time the automobile and its

occupants were out of sight behind a clump of trees, but Tom and his

companions felt sure of the destination of the men--the deserted cabin

in the wood.

As silently as a wisp of grass falling, the big craft came down on a

level spot, and then, leaping out, the young inventor and his two

companions crept along the path toward the cabin. Mr. Terrill was

armed, Tom carried a flashlight, while Mr. Damon picked up a heavy club.

As soon as he came near a place where he thought the marks of the

automobile wheels would show, Tom flashed his light.

"I thought so!" he exclaimed, as he saw the square, knobby tread marks

left by the tires. "It's the same gang, or some of them in the same

car. If we can only capture them!"

"The Secret Service men ought to do that," returned Mr. Terrill, but,

as it developed later, they were not on hand, though through no fault

of theirs.

On and on crept Tom and the two men, until they came within sight of

the cabin. They saw a light gleaming in it, and Tom whispered:

"Now we have them! Work our way up quietly and make them surrender, if

we find they're what we think."

"Is there a rear door?" asked Mr. Terrill in a whisper.

Tom answered in the negative, and then all three, in fan shape, crept

up to the front portal. It was open, and silently reaching a place

where they could make an observation, Tom and his companions looked in.

What they saw filled them with wild and righteous rage, and brought to

an end the mystery of the disappearance of Mr. Nestor. For there he

sat, bound in a chair, and at a table in front of him were two

forbidding-looking men.

"What do you intend to do now?" asked Mr. Nestor in a faint voice. "I

cannot stand this captivity much longer. You admit that you don't want

me--that you never wanted me--so why do you keep me a prisoner? It

cannot do the least good."

"There's no use going over that again!" exclaimed the harsh voice of

one of the men. "We told you that if you will promise to keep still

about what happened to you, and not to give the police any information

about us, we'll let you go gladly. We don't want you. It was all a

mistake, capturing you. You were the wrong man. But we're not going to

let you go and have you set the police on us as soon as you get a

chance. Give us your promise to say nothing, and we'll let you join

your friends. If you don't--"

"Make no promises, Mr. Nestor!" cried Tom Swift in a ringing voice, as

he leaped from his hiding place, followed by his companions. "Your

friends are here, and you can tell them everything!"

"Up with 'em!" called Mr. Terrill to the two conspirators as he

confronted them with his automatic pistol ready for firing. He had no

need to mention hands--they knew what he meant and took the

characteristic attitude.

"Tom! Tom Swift!" cried Mr. Nestor, struggling ineffectually at his

bonds. "Is it really you?"

"Well, I hope it isn't any imitation," was the grim answer. "We'll

tell you all about it later. Jove, but I'm glad we found you! If it

hadn't been for Silent Sam we might never have been able to."