Sam gets the boys over there in force, there'll be a different story to

tell. I only wish--"

At that moment the telephone set up an insistent ringing, breaking in

on Mr. Damon's remarks.

"I'll answer," said Tom, as Mrs. Baggert moved toward the instrument,

which was an extension from the main one.

"Hello!" called the young inventor into the transmitter, and as he

received an answer a look of pleasure came over his face.

"Yes, Mary, this is Tom," he said. He remained silent a moment, while

it was evident he was listening to the voice at the other end of the

wire. Then he suddenly exclaimed:

"What's that? Tell him to come home? Why, he isn't here. I just came in

and--what--wait a minute!"

With a rather strange look on his face Tom covered the mouth-piece of

the instrument with his hand, and, turning to his father, asked:

"Is Mr. Nestor here?"

"No," replied Mr. Swift slowly, "He was here, though. He came a little

while after you and Mr. Damon started off in the Air Scout. But he

didn't stay. Said he wanted to see you about something and would call

again."

"Oh," remarked the young man. "I didn't know he had been there."

"I meant to tell you," said Mrs. Baggert; "but getting the lunch made

me forget it, I guess."

Tom uncovered the transmitter of the telephone again, and spoke to Mary

Nestor.

"Hello," he said. "I was wrong, Mary. Your father was here, but he left

when he found I wasn't at home. How long ago? Wait a minute and I'll

inquire.

"How long ago did Mr. Nestor leave?" asked the young inventor of the

housekeeper. "Nearly an hour," he said into the instrument, after he

had received the answer. Then, after listening a moment, he added:

"Yes, I guess he'll be home soon now. Probably stopped down town to see

some of his friends. Yes, Mr. Damon and I tried out the Air Scout. Yes,

she worked pretty well, for a starter, but there is something yet to be

done. Oh, yes, now I'll have time to come over to see you, and take you

for a ride too. We won't have to talk through a speaking tube, either.

Tell your father I am sorry I was out when he called. I'll come to see

him to-morrow, if he wants me to. Yes--yes. I guess so!" and Tom

laughed, it being evident that his remarks at the end of the

conversation had to do with personal matters.

"A telegram has come for Mr. Nestor and they were anxious that he

should get it," Tom explained to his little audience as he hung up the

receiver and put aside the telephone. "I wonder what he wanted to see

me about?"

"He didn't say," replied Mrs. Baggert.

Mr. Damon, Tom, and his father remained in conversation a little while

longer, and the eccentric man was thinking that it was about time for

him to return home, when the telephone rang again.

"Hello," answered Tom, as he was nearest the instrument. "Oh, yes,

Mary, this is he. What's that? Your father hasn't reached home yet? And

your mother is worried? Oh tell her there is no cause for alarm. As I

said, he probably stopped on his way to see some friends."

Tom listened for perhaps half a minute to a talk that was inaudible to

the others in the room, and they noticed a grave look come over his

face. Then he said:

"I'll be right over, Mary. Yes, I'll come at once. And tell your mother

not to worry. I'm sure nothing could have happened. I'll be with you

in a jiffy!"

As Tom Swift hung up the receiver he said: