Jackson had used. It held three easily, and, on a pinch, four could be

carried. Tom's plan was to take Mr. Damon and Mr. Terrill, fly with

them for some time in the air, and demonstrate how quiet his new craft

was. Then, by contrast, a machine without the muffler and the new motor

with its improved propellers would be flown, making as much noise as

the usual craft did.

"I only wish," said Tom, as the time arrived for the official

government test, "that Mary could be here to see it. She was the one

who really started me on this idea, so to speak, as it was because I

couldn't talk to her that I decided to get up a silent motor."

But Mary Nestor was too grief-stricken over her missing father to come

to the test, which was to take place late one afternoon, starting from

the aerodrome of the Swift plant.

"First," said Tom, to Mr. Terrill, "I'll show you how the machine works

on the ground. I'll run the motor while the plane is held down by means

of ropes and blocks. Then we'll go up in it."

"That suits me," said the agent. "If it does all you say it will do,

and as much as I believe it will do, Uncle Sam will be your debtor, Mr.

Swift."

"Well, we'll see," said Tom with a smile.

Preparations were made with the greatest care, and Tom went over every

detail of the machine twice to make certain that, in spite of the

precautions, no spy had done any hidden damage, that might be

manifested at an inopportune moment. But everything seemed all right,

and, finally, the motor was started, while Mr. Terrill, and some of his

colleagues from the Army Aviation department looked on.

"Contact!" cried Tom, as Jackson indicated that the compression had

been made.

The mechanic nodded, gave the big propeller blades a quarter turn and

jumped back. In an instant the motor was operating, and the craft would

have leaped forward and cleaved the air but for the holding ropes and

blocks. Tom speeded the machinery up to almost the last notch, but

those in the aerodrome hardly heard a sound. It was as though some

great, silent dynamo were working.

"Fine!"

"Wonderful!"

"Wouldn't have believed it possible!"

These were some of the comments of the government inspectors.

"And now for the final test--that in the air," said Mr. Terrill.

Previous to this he and his colleagues had made a minute examination of

the machinery, and had been shown the interior construction of the

silencer by means of one built so that a sectional view could be had.

Tom's principles were pronounced fundamental and simple.

"So simple, in fact, that it is a wonder no one thought of it before,"

said a navy aviation expert. "It is the last word in aircraft

construction--a silent motor that will not apprise the enemy of its

approach! You have done wonders, Mr. Swift!"

"I'd rather hear you say that after the air test," replied Tom, with a

laugh. "Are you ready, Mr. Terrill?"

"Whenever you are."

"How about you, Mr. Damon?"

"Oh, I'm always ready to go with you, Tom Swift. Bless my trench

helmet, but you can't sail any too soon for me!"

There was a genial laugh at his impetuosity, and the three took their

seats in the big craft. Once more the engine was started. It operated

as silently as before, and the first good impressions were confirmed.

Even as the machine moved along the ground, just previous to taking

flight into the air, there was no noise, save the slight crunch made by

the wheels. This, of course, would be obviated when Silent Sam was

aloft.

Up and up soared the great craft, with Tom at the engine and guide

controls, while Mr. Terrill and Mr. Damon sat behind him, both eagerly

watching. Mr. Terrill was there to find fault if he could, but he was

glad he did not have to.

"The machine works perfectly, Mr. Swift," he said. "My report cannot be

otherwise than favorable."

"We mustn't be in too much of a hurry," said Tom, who had learned

caution some time ago. "I want to sail around for several hours.

Sometimes a machine will work well at first, but defects will develop

when it is overheated. I'm going to do my best to make a noise with

this new motor."