had been taken in; thirdly, she trusted that they would never be happy

together; and, fourthly, that the match might be broken off. Two

inferences, however, were plainly deduced from the whole: one, that

Elizabeth was the real cause of all the mischief; and the other, that

she herself had been barbarously used by them all; and on these two

points she principally dwelt during the rest of the day. Nothing could

console and nothing appease her. Nor did that day wear out her

resentment. A week elapsed before she could see Elizabeth without

scolding her: a month passed away before she could speak to Sir William

or Lady Lucas without being rude; and many months were gone before she

could at all forgive their daughter.

Mr. Bennet’s emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such

as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for

it gratified him, he said, to discover that Charlotte Lucas, whom he had

been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and

more foolish than his daughter!

Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match: but she said

less of her astonishment than of her earnest desire for their happiness;

nor could Elizabeth persuade her to consider it as improbable. Kitty and

Lydia were far from envying Miss Lucas, for Mr. Collins was only a

clergyman; and it affected them in no other way than as a piece of news

to spread at Meryton.

Lady Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on

Mrs. Bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married; and she

called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was,

though Mrs. Bennet’s sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been

enough to drive happiness away.

Between Elizabeth and Charlotte there was a restraint which kept them

mutually silent on the subject; and Elizabeth felt persuaded that no

real confidence could ever subsist between them again. Her

disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her

sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could

never be shaken, and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious, as

Bingley had now been gone a week, and nothing was heard of his return.

Jane had sent Caroline an early answer to her letter, and was counting

the days till she might reasonably hope to hear again. The promised

letter of thanks from Mr. Collins arrived on Tuesday, addressed to their

father, and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a

twelve-month’s abode in the family might have prompted. After

discharging his conscience on that head, he proceeded to inform them,

with many rapturous expressions, of his happiness in having obtained the

affection of their amiable neighbour, Miss Lucas, and then explained

that it was merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had

been so ready to close with their kind wish of seeing him again at

Longbourn, whither he hoped to be able to return on Monday fortnight;

for Lady Catherine, he added, so heartily approved his marriage, that

she wished it to take place as soon as possible, which he trusted would

be an unanswerable argument with his amiable Charlotte to name an early

day for making him the happiest of men.

Mr. Collins’s return into Hertfordshire was no longer a matter of

pleasure to Mrs. Bennet. On the contrary, she was as much disposed to

complain of it as her husband. It was very strange that he should come

to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it was also very inconvenient

and exceedingly troublesome. She hated having visitors in the house

while her health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the

most disagreeable. Such were the gentle murmurs of Mrs. Bennet, and they

gave way only to the greater distress of Mr. Bingley’s continued

absence.

Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject. Day after

day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the

report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of his coming no more to

Netherfield the whole winter; a report which highly incensed Mrs.

Bennet, and which she never failed to contradict as a most scandalous

falsehood.

Even Elizabeth began to fear--not that Bingley was indifferent--but that

his sisters would be successful in keeping him away. Unwilling as she

was to admit an idea so destructive to Jane’s happiness, and so

dishonourable to the stability of her lover, she could not prevent its

frequently recurring. The united efforts of his two unfeeling sisters,

and of his overpowering friend, assisted by the attractions of Miss

Darcy and the amusements of London, might be too much, she feared, for

the strength of his attachment.

As for Jane, _her_ anxiety under this suspense was, of course, more

painful than Elizabeth’s: but whatever she felt she was desirous of

concealing; and between herself and Elizabeth, therefore, the subject

was never alluded to. But as no such delicacy restrained her mother, an

hour seldom passed in which she did not talk of Bingley, express her

impatience for his arrival, or even require Jane to confess that if he

did not come back she should think herself very ill-used. It needed all

Jane’s steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable

tranquillity.

Mr. Collins returned most punctually on the Monday fortnight, but his