to roam, at will, in that broad and quiet field where all mankind may

meet, rather than confine himself to those narrow paths where brethren

of the same household must diverge from one another—had sometimes

made it questionable with his brother Democrats whether he was a

friend. Now, after he had won the crown of martyrdom (though with no

longer a head to wear it on), the point might be looked upon as

settled. Finally, little heroic as he was, it seemed more decorous to

be overthrown in the downfall of the party with which he had been

content to stand, than to remain a forlorn survivor, when so many

worthier men were falling; and, at last, after subsisting for four

years on the mercy of a hostile administration, to be compelled then

to define his position anew, and claim the yet more humiliating mercy

of a friendly one.

Meanwhile the press had taken up my affair, and kept me, for a week or

two, careering through the public prints, in my decapitated state,

like Irving’s Headless Horseman; ghastly and grim, and longing to be

buried, as a politically dead man ought. So much for my figurative

self. The real human being, all this time, with his head safely on his

shoulders, had brought himself to the comfortable conclusion that

everything was for the best; and, making an investment in ink, paper,

and steel-pens, had opened his long-disused writing-desk, and was

again a literary man.

Now it was that the lucubrations of my ancient predecessor, Mr.

Surveyor Pue, came into play. Rusty through long idleness, some little

space was requisite before my intellectual machinery could be brought

to work upon the tale, with an effect in any degree satisfactory. Even

yet, though my thoughts were ultimately much absorbed in the task, it

wears, to my eye, a stern and sombre aspect; too much ungladdened by

genial sunshine; too little relieved by the tender and familiar

influences which soften almost every scene of nature and real life,

and, undoubtedly, should soften every picture of them. This

uncaptivating effect is perhaps due to the period of hardly

accomplished revolution, and still seething turmoil, in which the

story shaped itself. It is no indication, however, of a lack of

cheerfulness in the writer’s mind; for he was happier, while straying

through the gloom of these sunless fantasies, than at any time since

he had quitted the Old Manse. Some of the briefer articles, which

contribute to make up the volume, have likewise been written since my

involuntary withdrawal from the toils and honors of public life, and

the remainder are gleaned from annuals and magazines of such antique

date that they have gone round the circle, and come back to novelty

again.[1] Keeping up the metaphor of the political guillotine, the

whole may be considered as the POSTHUMOUS PAPERS OF A DECAPITATED

SURVEYOR; and the sketch which I am now bringing to a close, if too

autobiographical for a modest person to publish in his lifetime, will

readily be excused in a gentleman who writes from beyond the grave.

Peace be with all the world! My blessing on my friends! My forgiveness

to my enemies! For I am in the realm of quiet!

 [Footnote 1: At the time of writing this article the author

 intended to publish, along with “The Scarlet Letter,” several

 shorter tales and sketches. These it has been thought

 advisable to defer.]

The life of the Custom-House lies like a dream behind me. The old

Inspector,—who, by the by, I regret to say, was overthrown and killed

by a horse, some time ago; else he would certainly have lived

forever,—he, and all those other venerable personages who sat with

him at the receipt of custom, are but shadows in my view; white-headed

and wrinkled images, which my fancy used to sport with, and has now

flung aside forever. The merchants,—Pingree, Phillips, Shepard,

Upton, Kimball, Bertram, Hunt,—these, and many other names, which had

such a classic familiarity for my ear six months ago,—these men of

traffic, who seemed to occupy so important a position in the

world,—how little time has it required to disconnect me from them

all, not merely in act, but recollection! It is with an effort that I

recall the figures and appellations of these few. Soon, likewise, my

old native town will loom upon me through the haze of memory, a mist

brooding over and around it; as if it were no portion of the real

earth, but an overgrown village in cloud-land, with only imaginary

inhabitants to people its wooden houses, and walk its homely lanes,

and the unpicturesque prolixity of its main street. Henceforth it

ceases to be a reality of my life. I am a citizen of somewhere else.

My good towns-people will not much regret me; for—though it has been

as dear an object as any, in my literary efforts, to be of some

importance in their eyes, and to win myself a pleasant memory in this

abode and burial-place of so many of my forefathers—_there_ has never

been, for me, the genial atmosphere which a literary man requires, in

order to ripen the best harvest of his mind. I shall do better amongst

other faces; and these familiar ones, it need hardly be said, will do