Is it e'ne so? why then I thanke you all.

I thanke you honest Gentlemen, good night:

More Torches here: come on, then let's to bed.

Ah sirrah, by my faie it waxes late,

Ile to my rest

 Iuli. Come hither Nurse,

What is yond Gentleman:

 Nur. The Sonne and Heire of old Tyberio

 Iuli. What's he that now is going out of doore?

 Nur. Marrie that I thinke be young Petruchio

 Iul. What's he that follows here that would not dance?

 Nur. I know not

 Iul. Go aske his name: if he be married,

My graue is like to be my wedded bed

 Nur. His name is Romeo, and a Mountague,

The onely Sonne of your great Enemie

 Iul. My onely Loue sprung from my onely hate,

Too early seene, vnknowne, and knowne too late,

Prodigious birth of Loue it is to me,

That I must loue a loathed Enemie

 Nur. What's this? whats this?

 Iul. A rime, I learne euen now

Of one I dan'st withall.

One cals within, Iuliet.

 Nur. Anon, anon:

Come let's away, the strangers all are gone.

Exeunt.

 Chorus. Now old desire doth in his death bed lie,

And yong affection gapes to be his Heire,

That faire, for which Loue gron'd for and would die,

With tender Iuliet matcht, is now not faire.

Now Romeo is beloued, and Loues againe,

A like bewitched by the charme of lookes:

But to his foe suppos'd he must complaine,

And she steale Loues sweet bait from fearefull hookes:

Being held a foe, he may not haue accesse

To breath such vowes as Louers vse to sweare,

And she as much in Loue, her meanes much lesse,

To meete her new Beloued any where:

But passion lends them Power, time, meanes to meete,

Temp'ring extremities with extreame sweete.

Enter Romeo alone.

 Rom. Can I goe forward when my heart is here?

Turne backe dull earth, and find thy Center out.

Enter Benuolio, with Mercutio.

 Ben. Romeo, my Cozen Romeo, Romeo

 Merc. He is wise,

And on my life hath stolne him home to bed

 Ben. He ran this way and leapt this Orchard wall.

Call good Mercutio:

Nay, Ile coniure too

 Mer. Romeo, Humours, Madman, Passion, Louer,

Appeare thou in the likenesse of a sigh,

Speake but one time, and I am satisfied:

Cry me but ay me, Prouant, but Loue and day,

Speake to my goship Venus one faire word,

One Nickname for her purblind Sonne and her,

Young Abraham Cupid he that shot so true,

When King Cophetua lou'd the begger Maid,

He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moueth not,

The Ape is dead, I must coniure him,

I coniure thee by Rosalines bright eyes,

By her High forehead, and her Scarlet lip,

By her Fine foote, Straight leg, and Quiuering thigh,

And the Demeanes, that there Adiacent lie,

That in thy likenesse thou appeare to vs

 Ben. And if he heare thee thou wilt anger him

 Mer. This cannot anger him, t'would anger him

To raise a spirit in his Mistresse circle,

Of some strange nature, letting it stand

Till she had laid it, and coniured it downe,

That were some spight.

My inuocation is faire and honest, & in his Mistris name,

I coniure onely but to raise vp him

 Ben. Come, he hath hid himselfe among these Trees

To be consorted with the Humerous night: