heart, that I can get no rest by night nor by day. And tell my dear

Lydia not to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me,

for she does not know which are the best warehouses. Oh, brother, how

kind you are! I know you will contrive it all.”

But Mr. Gardiner, though he assured her again of his earnest endeavours

in the cause, could not avoid recommending moderation to her, as well in

her hopes as her fears; and after talking with her in this manner till

dinner was on table, they left her to vent all her feelings on the

housekeeper, who attended in the absence of her daughters.

Though her brother and sister were persuaded that there was no real

occasion for such a seclusion from the family, they did not attempt to

oppose it; for they knew that she had not prudence enough to hold her

tongue before the servants, while they waited at table, and judged it

better that _one_ only of the household, and the one whom they could

most trust, should comprehend all her fears and solicitude on the

subject.

In the dining-room they were soon joined by Mary and Kitty, who had been

too busily engaged in their separate apartments to make their appearance

before. One came from her books, and the other from her toilette. The

faces of both, however, were tolerably calm; and no change was visible

in either, except that the loss of her favourite sister, or the anger

which she had herself incurred in the business, had given something more

of fretfulness than usual to the accents of Kitty. As for Mary, she was

mistress enough of herself to whisper to Elizabeth, with a countenance

of grave reflection, soon after they were seated at table,--

“This is a most unfortunate affair, and will probably be much talked of.

But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of

each other the balm of sisterly consolation.”

Then perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying, she added,

“Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia, we may draw from it this useful

lesson:--that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable, that one

false step involves her in endless ruin, that her reputation is no less

brittle than it is beautiful, and that she cannot be too much guarded in

her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex.”

Elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement, but was too much oppressed to

make any reply. Mary, however, continued to console herself with such

kind of moral extractions from the evil before them.

In the afternoon, the two elder Miss Bennets were able to be for half an

hour by themselves; and Elizabeth instantly availed herself of the

opportunity of making any inquiries which Jane was equally eager to

satisfy. After joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel

of this event, which Elizabeth considered as all but certain, and Miss

Bennet could not assert to be wholly impossible, the former continued

the subject by saying, “But tell me all and everything about it which I

have not already heard. Give me further particulars. What did Colonel

Forster say? Had they no apprehension of anything before the elopement

took place? They must have seen them together for ever.”

“Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality,

especially on Lydia’s side, but nothing to give him any alarm. I am so

grieved for him. His behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost. He

_was_ coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, before he had

any idea of their not being gone to Scotland: when that apprehension

first got abroad, it hastened his journey.”

“And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry? Did he know of

their intending to go off? Had Colonel Forster seen Denny himself?”

“Yes; but when questioned by _him_, Denny denied knowing anything of

their plan, and would not give his real opinion about it. He did not

repeat his persuasion of their not marrying, and from _that_ I am

inclined to hope he might have been misunderstood before.”

“And till Colonel Forster came himself, not one of you entertained a

doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?”

“How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains? I felt a

little uneasy--a little fearful of my sister’s happiness with him in

marriage, because I knew that his conduct had not been always quite

right. My father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how

imprudent a match it must be. Kitty then owned, with a very natural

triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in Lydia’s last letter

she had prepared her for such a step. She had known, it seems, of their

being in love with each other many weeks.”

“But not before they went to Brighton?”

“No, I believe not.”

“And did Colonel Forster appear to think ill of Wickham himself? Does he

know his real character?”

“I must confess that he did not speak so well of Wickham as he formerly

did. He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant; and since this sad