of the open window, that looked towards the graveyard, he talked with

Roger Chillingworth, while the old man was examining a bundle of

unsightly plants.

“Where,” asked he, with a look askance at them,—for it was the

clergyman’s peculiarity that he seldom, nowadays, looked straightforth

at any object, whether human or inanimate,—“where, my kind doctor,

did you gather those herbs, with such a dark, flabby leaf?”

“Even in the graveyard here at hand,” answered the physician,

continuing his employment. “They are new to me. I found them growing

on a grave, which bore no tombstone, nor other memorial of the dead

man, save these ugly weeds, that have taken upon themselves to keep

him in remembrance. They grew out of his heart, and typify, it may be,

some hideous secret that was buried with him, and which he had done

better to confess during his lifetime.”

“Perchance,” said Mr. Dimmesdale, “he earnestly desired it, but could

not.”

“And wherefore?” rejoined the physician. “Wherefore not; since all the

powers of nature call so earnestly for the confession of sin, that

these black weeds have sprung up out of a buried heart, to make

manifest an unspoken crime?”

“That, good Sir, is but a fantasy of yours,” replied the minister.

“There can be, if I forebode aright, no power, short of the Divine

mercy, to disclose, whether by uttered words, or by type or emblem,

the secrets that may be buried with a human heart. The heart, making

itself guilty of such secrets, must perforce hold them, until the day

when all hidden things shall be revealed. Nor have I so read or

interpreted Holy Writ, as to understand that the disclosure of human

thoughts and deeds, then to be made, is intended as a part of the

retribution. That, surely, were a shallow view of it. No; these

revelations, unless I greatly err, are meant merely to promote the

intellectual satisfaction of all intelligent beings, who will stand

waiting, on that day, to see the dark problem of this life made plain.

A knowledge of men’s hearts will be needful to the completest solution

of that problem. And I conceive, moreover, that the hearts holding

such miserable secrets as you speak of will yield them up, at that

last day, not with reluctance, but with a joy unutterable.”

“Then why not reveal them here?” asked Roger Chillingworth, glancing

quietly aside at the minister. “Why should not the guilty ones sooner

avail themselves of this unutterable solace?”

“They mostly do,” said the clergyman, griping hard at his breast as if

afflicted with an importunate throb of pain. “Many, many a poor soul

hath given its confidence to me, not only on the death-bed, but while

strong in life, and fair in reputation. And ever, after such an

outpouring, O, what a relief have I witnessed in those sinful

brethren! even as in one who at last draws free air, after long

stifling with his own polluted breath. How can it be otherwise? Why

should a wretched man, guilty, we will say, of murder, prefer to keep

the dead corpse buried in his own heart, rather than fling it forth at

once, and let the universe take care of it!”

“Yet some men bury their secrets thus,” observed the calm physician.

“True; there are such men,” answered Mr. Dimmesdale. “But, not to

suggest more obvious reasons, it may be that they are kept silent by

the very constitution of their nature. Or,—can we not suppose

it?—guilty as they may be, retaining, nevertheless, a zeal for God’s

glory and man’s welfare, they shrink from displaying themselves black

and filthy in the view of men; because, thenceforward, no good can be

achieved by them; no evil of the past be redeemed by better service.

So, to their own unutterable torment, they go about among their

fellow-creatures, looking pure as new-fallen snow while their hearts

are all speckled and spotted with iniquity of which they cannot rid

themselves.”

“These men deceive themselves,” said Roger Chillingworth, with

somewhat more emphasis than usual, and making a slight gesture with

his forefinger. “They fear to take up the shame that rightfully

belongs to them. Their love for man, their zeal for God’s

service,—these holy impulses may or may not coexist in their hearts

with the evil inmates to which their guilt has unbarred the door, and

which must needs propagate a hellish breed within them. But, if they

seek to glorify God, let them not lift heavenward their unclean hands!

If they would serve their fellow-men, let them do it by making

manifest the power and reality of conscience, in constraining them to

penitential self-abasement! Wouldst thou have me to believe, O wise

and pious friend, that a false show can be better—can be more for

God’s glory, or man’s welfare—than God’s own truth? Trust me, such

men deceive themselves!”

“It may be so,” said the young clergyman, indifferently, as waiving a