strange sympathy betwixt soul and body! Were it only for the art’s

sake, I must search this matter to the bottom!”

It came to pass, not long after the scene above recorded, that the

Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale, at noonday, and entirely unawares, fell into

a deep, deep slumber, sitting in his chair, with a large black-letter

volume open before him on the table. It must have been a work of vast

ability in the somniferous school of literature. The profound depth of

the minister’s repose was the more remarkable, inasmuch as he was one

of those persons whose sleep, ordinarily, is as light, as fitful, and

as easily scared away, as a small bird hopping on a twig. To such an

unwonted remoteness, however, had his spirit now withdrawn into

itself, that he stirred not in his chair, when old Roger

Chillingworth, without any extraordinary precaution, came into the

room. The physician advanced directly in front of his patient, laid

his hand upon his bosom, and thrust aside the vestment, that,

hitherto, had always covered it even from the professional eye.

Then, indeed, Mr. Dimmesdale shuddered, and slightly stirred.

After a brief pause, the physician turned away.

But, with what a wild look of wonder, joy, and horror! With what a

ghastly rapture, as it were, too mighty to be expressed only by the

eye and features, and therefore bursting forth through the whole

ugliness of his figure, and making itself even riotously manifest by

the extravagant gestures with which he threw up his arms towards the

ceiling, and stamped his foot upon the floor! Had a man seen old

Roger Chillingworth, at that moment of his ecstasy, he would have had

no need to ask how Satan comports himself, when a precious human soul

is lost to heaven, and won into his kingdom.

But what distinguished the physician’s ecstasy from Satan’s was the

trait of wonder in it!

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 XI.

 THE INTERIOR OF A HEART.

After the incident last described, the intercourse between the

clergyman and the physician, though externally the same, was really of

another character than it had previously been. The intellect of Roger

Chillingworth had now a sufficiently plain path before it. It was not,

indeed, precisely that which he had laid out for himself to tread.

Calm, gentle, passionless, as he appeared, there was yet, we fear, a

quiet depth of malice, hitherto latent, but active now, in this

unfortunate old man, which led him to imagine a more intimate revenge

than any mortal had ever wreaked upon an enemy. To make himself the

one trusted friend, to whom should be confided all the fear, the

remorse, the agony, the ineffectual repentance, the backward rush of

sinful thoughts, expelled in vain! All that guilty sorrow, hidden from

the world, whose great heart would have pitied and forgiven, to be

revealed to him, the Pitiless, to him, the Unforgiving! All that dark

treasure to be lavished on the very man, to whom nothing else could so

adequately pay the debt of vengeance!

The clergyman’s shy and sensitive reserve had balked this scheme.

Roger Chillingworth, however, was inclined to be hardly, if at all,

less satisfied with the aspect of affairs, which Providence—using the

avenger and his victim for its own purposes, and, perchance, pardoning

where it seemed most to punish—had substituted for his black devices.

A revelation, he could almost say, had been granted to him. It

mattered little, for his object, whether celestial, or from what other

region. By its aid, in all the subsequent relations betwixt him and

Mr. Dimmesdale, not merely the external presence, but the very inmost

soul, of the latter, seemed to be brought out before his eyes, so that

he could see and comprehend its every movement. He became,

thenceforth, not a spectator only, but a chief actor, in the poor

minister’s interior world. He could play upon him as he chose. Would

he arouse him with a throb of agony? The victim was forever on the

rack; it needed only to know the spring that controlled the

engine;—and the physician knew it well! Would he startle him with

sudden fear? As at the waving of a magician’s wand, uprose a grisly

phantom,—uprose a thousand phantoms,—in many shapes, of death, or

more awful shame, all flocking round about the clergyman, and pointing

with their fingers at his breast!

All this was accomplished with a subtlety so perfect, that the

minister, though he had constantly a dim perception of some evil

influence watching over him, could never gain a knowledge of its

actual nature. True, he looked doubtfully, fearfully,—even, at times,

with horror and the bitterness of hatred,—at the deformed figure of

the old physician. His gestures, his gait, his grizzled beard, his

slightest and most indifferent acts, the very fashion of his garments,

were odious in the clergyman’s sight; a token implicitly to be relied