discussion that he considered irrelevant or unseasonable. He had a

ready faculty, indeed, of escaping from any topic that agitated his

too sensitive and nervous temperament.—“But, now, I would ask of my

well-skilled physician, whether, in good sooth, he deems me to have

profited by his kindly care of this weak frame of mine?”

Before Roger Chillingworth could answer, they heard the clear, wild

laughter of a young child’s voice, proceeding from the adjacent

burial-ground. Looking instinctively from the open window,—for it was

summer-time,—the minister beheld Hester Prynne and little Pearl

passing along the footpath that traversed the enclosure. Pearl looked

as beautiful as the day, but was in one of those moods of perverse

merriment which, whenever they occurred, seemed to remove her entirely

out of the sphere of sympathy or human contact. She now skipped

irreverently from one grave to another; until, coming to the broad,

flat, armorial tombstone of a departed worthy,—perhaps of Isaac

Johnson himself,—she began to dance upon it. In reply to her mother’s

command and entreaty that she would behave more decorously, little

Pearl paused to gather the prickly burrs from a tall burdock which

grew beside the tomb. Taking a handful of these, she arranged them

along the lines of the scarlet letter that decorated the maternal

bosom, to which the burrs, as their nature was, tenaciously adhered.

Hester did not pluck them off.

Roger Chillingworth had by this time approached the window, and smiled

grimly down.

“There is no law, nor reverence for authority, no regard for human

ordinances or opinions, right or wrong, mixed up with that child’s

composition,” remarked he, as much to himself as to his companion. “I

saw her, the other day, bespatter the Governor himself with water, at

the cattle-trough in Spring Lane. What, in Heaven’s name, is she? Is

the imp altogether evil? Hath she affections? Hath she any

discoverable principle of being?”

“None, save the freedom of a broken law,” answered Mr. Dimmesdale, in

a quiet way, as if he had been discussing the point within himself.

“Whether capable of good, I know not.”

The child probably overheard their voices; for, looking up to the

window, with a bright, but naughty smile of mirth and intelligence,

she threw one of the prickly burrs at the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale. The

sensitive clergyman shrunk, with nervous dread, from the light

missile. Detecting his emotion, Pearl clapped her little hands, in the

most extravagant ecstasy. Hester Prynne, likewise, had involuntarily

looked up; and all these four persons, old and young, regarded one

another in silence, till the child laughed aloud, and shouted,—“Come

away, mother! Come away, or yonder old Black Man will catch you! He

hath got hold of the minister already. Come away, mother, or he will

catch you! But he cannot catch little Pearl!”

So she drew her mother away, skipping, dancing, and frisking

fantastically, among the hillocks of the dead people, like a creature

that had nothing in common with a bygone and buried generation, nor

owned herself akin to it. It was as if she had been made afresh, out

of new elements, and must perforce be permitted to live her own life,

and be a law unto herself, without her eccentricities being reckoned

to her for a crime.

“There goes a woman,” resumed Roger Chillingworth, after a pause,

“who, be her demerits what they may, hath none of that mystery of

hidden sinfulness which you deem so grievous to be borne. Is Hester

Prynne the less miserable, think you, for that scarlet letter on her

breast?”

“I do verily believe it,” answered the clergyman. “Nevertheless, I

cannot answer for her. There was a look of pain in her face, which I

would gladly have been spared the sight of. But still, methinks, it

must needs be better for the sufferer to be free to show his pain, as

this poor woman Hester is, than to cover it all up in his heart.”

There was another pause; and the physician began anew to examine and

arrange the plants which he had gathered.

“You inquired of me, a little time agone,” said he, at length, “my

judgment as touching your health.”

“I did,” answered the clergyman, “and would gladly learn it. Speak

frankly, I pray you, be it for life or death.”

“Freely, then, and plainly,” said the physician, still busy with his

plants, but keeping a wary eye on Mr. Dimmesdale, “the disorder is a

strange one; not so much in itself, nor as outwardly manifested,—in

so far, at least, as the symptoms have been laid open to my

observation. Looking daily at you, my good Sir, and watching the

tokens of your aspect, now for months gone by, I should deem you a man