"I'm inclined to agree with you, Son," said Mr. Swift dryly. "Don't

try to get rid of all the noise at once. Eliminate it by degrees and it

will be safer."

"I guess so," agreed Tom.

By this time a score of workmen from the other shops had congregated

around the one though the roof of which the motor had been blown. Tom

opened the door to assure Jackson and the others that no one was hurt,

and then the young inventor saw the exploded motor had buried in the

dirt a short distance away from the experiment building.

"Lucky none of us were standing over it when it went up," said Tom, as

he made an inspection of the broken machine. "We'd have gone through

the roof with it."

"She certainly went sailing!" commented Ned. "Must have been a lot of

power there, Tom."

And this was evidenced by the bent and twisted rods that had held the

motor to the testing block, and by the cylinders, some of which were

torn apart as though made of paper instead of heavy steel. But for the

fact that all the force of the explosion was directly upward, instead

of at the sides, none might have been left alive in the shop. All had

escaped most fortunately, and they realized this.

"Well," queried Ned, as Tom gave orders to have the damaged machine

removed and the roof repaired, "does this end the wonderful silent

motor, Tom?"

"End it! What do you mean--"

"I mean are you going to experiment any further?"

"Why, of course! Just because I've had one failure doesn't mean that

I'm going to give up. Especially when I know what the matter was--not

leaving any vent for the escaping gases. Why this isn't anything. When

I was perfecting my giant cannon I was nearly blown up more than once,

and you remember how we got stuck in the submarine."

"I should say I did!" exclaimed Ned with a shudder. "I don't want any

more of that. But as between being blown through a roof and held at the

bottom of the sea, I don't know that there's much choice."

"Well, perhaps not," agreed Tom. "But as for ending my experiments, I

wouldn't dream of such a thing! Why, I've only just begun! I'll have a

silent motor yet!"

"And a non-explosive one, I hope," added Mr. Damon dryly. "Bless my

shoe buttons, Tom, but if my wife knew what danger I'd been in she'd

never let me come over to see you any more."

"Well, the next time I invite you to a test I'll be more careful,"

promised the young inventor.

"There isn't going to be any next time as far as I'm concerned!"

laughed Ned. "I think it's safer to sell Liberty Bonds."

And, though they joked about it, they all realized the narrow escape

they had had. As for Eradicate, once he knew he had not been the one

who caused the damage, he felt rather proud of the part he had taken in

the mishap, and for many days he boasted about it to Koku.

True to his determination, Tom Swift did not give up his experimental

work on the silent motor. The machine that had been blown through the

roof was useless now, and it was sent to the scrap heap, after as much

of it as possible had been salvaged. Then Tom got another piece of

apparatus out of his store room and began all over again.

He worked along the same lines as at first--providing a chamber for the

escaping gases of the exhaust to expend their noise and energy in, at

the same time laboring to cut down the concussion of the explosions in

the cylinder without reducing their force any. And that it was no easy

problem to do either of these, Tom had to admit as he progressed. All

previous types of mufflers or silencers had to be discarded and a new

one evolved.

"Jackson, I need some one to help me," said Tom to his chief

mechanician one day. "Haven't you a good man who is used to

experimental work that you can let me take from the works?"

"Why, yes," was the answer. "Let me see. Roberts is busy on the new

bomb you got up, but I could take him off that--"

"No, don't!" interposed Tom. "I want that work to go on. Isn't there

some one else you can let me have?"