said.

The search was kept up, but without result, and Tom aided all he could.

But there was not much he could do. The police and other authorities

were at a total loss.

In the intervals of visiting Mary and her mother, and doing what he

could for them, Tom worked on his new motor. He knew that he was on the

right track and that all that was needed now was to make certain

refinements and adjustments in the apparatus he had already

constructed, so that it would operate more quietly.

"Absorbing the vibrations from the exhaust, caused by the exploded

gases in the cylinders, does the trick," Tom told his father.

"But there is enormous pressure to overcome, Tom. You must be sure your

muffler will stand the strain. Otherwise she is going to blow out a

gasket some day, when you least expect it. Then the sudden resumption

of pressure outside the cylinders is going to cause a change in the

equilibrium, and you may turn turtle in the air."

"I've thought of that," said Tom. "At worst it can't be any more than

looping the loop. But I'll make the muffler doubly strong."

"Better provide an auxiliary chamber to take care of part of the

exhaust in case your main apparatus breaks," advised the older

inventor, and Tom said he would. He did, too, for he valued his

father's expert advice.

Meanwhile he was busy fitting one of his latest aeroplanes with the new

motor. The motor he and Mr. Damon had used in their flight was one

patched up from an old one. But now Tom was working on a complete new

one, made after his revised model, and in which the silencer was an

integral part, instead of being built on.

While giving Mary and her mother all the assistance in his power, Tom

still found time to work on his new, pet scheme. He had matters now

where he did not fear any tampering with his plans, for he had filed

away his papers in a safe place, and was making his new machine from

memory.

"But if some one got in and had a look at the inside of your silencer

he could see how it is constructed, couldn't he?" asked Ned Newton.

"Yes," assented Tom, "But they're not going to get in very easily. Koku

sleeps in the experiment shop now, and my machine is there."

"Oh, well that explains your confidence. I feel sorry for the burglar

who makes the attempt, once Koku wakes up. Heard anything more from

those Universal people?"

"No, not directly. I understand they are working hard on some new type

of plane for army use, but I haven't bothered my head about them. I'm

too much occupied with my own affairs and trying to help Mary."

"Very strange about Mr. Nestor, isn't it?"

"Worse than strange," said Tom. "If this keeps on, and he isn't heard

from, it will be tragic pretty soon."

"He must be held a prisoner somewhere," declared Ned.

"It begins to look that way," assented Tom. "Though who would have an

object in that I can't understand. He had no enemies, as far as is

known, and his business affairs were in excellent shape. Unless, as I

said, the persons who ran him down are, through fear, keeping him

hidden until he recovers, I can't imagine what has become of him."

"Well, it certainly is a puzzle," said Ned. And Tom agreed with his

chum.

It was about a week after the disappearance of Mr. Nestor that Mr.

Damon came over to see Tom.

"Bless my shoe laces, Tom!" exclaimed the eccentric man, "but you are

as busy as ever." For he found the young inventor in the experiment

shop, surrounded by a mass of papers and all sorts of mechanical

devices.

"Yes, I'm working a little," said Tom. "But you are just in time. Come

on out, I want to introduce you to Silent Sam."

"'Silent Sam!'" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Have you been taking a new trip

to the Land of Wonders? Have you brought back some new kind of servant?"

"Not exactly a servant," said Tom with a laugh, "though I hope Silent

Sam will serve me well."

"'Silent Sam?' What does it mean? Is that a joke?" asked the puzzled

Mr. Damon.