"Might mean almost anything," completed Tom. "But it's a clew all

right! He's been here, and I'm pretty certain he was brought here in

the auto with the odd tires--the one Mr. Damon and I saw traces of the

night we heard the cries for help."

"But that doesn't help us now," said Jackson. "The point is to find out

how lately Mr. Nestor was here, and what has happened to him since.

There isn't anything in the wallet, is there?"

"Nothing," answered Tom, making a careful examination so as to be sure.

"It's as empty as a last year's bird nest. He's been robbed--that's

what has happened to Mr. Nestor. He was waylaid that night, instead of

being run down as I thought--waylaid and robbed and then his body was

brought here."

"There you go again, Tom! Jumping to conclusions!" said Jackson, with a

friendly smile, and with the familiarity of an old and valued helper.

"Maybe he's in perfectly good health. Just because you found his empty

wallet doesn't argue that your friend is in serious trouble. He may

have dropped this on the road and some one picked it up. I'll admit

they may have taken whatever was in it, but that doesn't prove

anything. The thing for us to do is to find out who knows about this

shack; who owns it, on whose land it is, and whether any one has been

seen here lately."

"They've been here lately whether they've been seen or not," said Tom

positively. "There are the auto tracks. It rained two days ago, and the

tracks were made since. Mr. Nestor must have been here within two days."

"He may or may not," said Jackson. "Say, rather, that some one was here

and left his wallet after him. Now see if we can find other clews!"

They looked about in the fast fading light, but at first could discover

nothing more than evidences that three or four persons had been living

in the shack and at some recent date--probably within a day or two.

They had had their meals there and had slept there. But this seemed to

be all that could be established, other than that Mr. Nestor's wallet

was there, stripped of its contents.

Tom was looking through the closet, from which a frightened chipmunk

sprang as he opened the door. There were the remains of some food,

which accounted for the presence of the little striped animal. And, as

Tom poked about, his hand came in contact with something wrapped in

paper on an upper shelf. It was something that clinked metallicly.

"What's that?" asked Jackson. "Knives, or some other weapons?"

"Neither," answered Tom. "It's a couple of files, and they've been used

lately. I can see something in the grooves yet and--"

Suddenly Tom ceased speaking and drew from his pocket a small but

powerful magnifying glass. Through this he looked at one of the files,

taking it out in front of the shack where the light was better.

"I thought so!" he cried. "Look here, Jackson!"

"What is it?"

"Another clew!" answered Tom.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE GOVERNMENT TEST

For a moment Jackson thought Tom had discovered a clew to, or evidences

of, some crime. He had an unpleasant suspicion, for an instant, that

there was blood on the files, and that it might prove to be the blood

of Mr. Nestor.

But the satisfaction that showed on Tom's face did not seem to indicate

such dire possibilities as these.

"What is it?" asked Jackson, unable to guess at what Tom was looking

through the powerful glass. "What do you see?"

"Metal filings on the grooves of these files," said the young inventor.

"And, unless I'm greatly mistaken, the particles of filings are from

the case of my aircraft silencer!"

"What!" cried the machinist. "Do you mean those are the files used in

weakening the outer case of your new machine, so that it burst a little

while ago?"

"That's what I think," answered Tom. "I know it sounds pretty