banqueted heavily, and will sleep late?”

Did I forget! shall I ever--can I ever! Can any of us ever forget that

terrible scene! Mina struggled hard to keep her brave countenance; but

the pain overmastered her and she put her hands before her face, and

shuddered whilst she moaned. Van Helsing had not intended to recall her

frightful experience. He had simply lost sight of her and her part in

the affair in his intellectual effort. When it struck him what he said,

he was horrified at his thoughtlessness and tried to comfort her. “Oh,

Madam Mina,” he said, “dear, dear Madam Mina, alas! that I of all who so

reverence you should have said anything so forgetful. These stupid old

lips of mine and this stupid old head do not deserve so; but you will

forget it, will you not?” He bent low beside her as he spoke; she took

his hand, and looking at him through her tears, said hoarsely:--

“No, I shall not forget, for it is well that I remember; and with it I

have so much in memory of you that is sweet, that I take it all

together. Now, you must all be going soon. Breakfast is ready, and we

must all eat that we may be strong.”

Breakfast was a strange meal to us all. We tried to be cheerful and

encourage each other, and Mina was the brightest and most cheerful of

us. When it was over, Van Helsing stood up and said:--

“Now, my dear friends, we go forth to our terrible enterprise. Are we

all armed, as we were on that night when first we visited our enemy’s

lair; armed against ghostly as well as carnal attack?” We all assured

him. “Then it is well. Now, Madam Mina, you are in any case _quite_ safe

here until the sunset; and before then we shall return--if---- We shall

return! But before we go let me see you armed against personal attack. I

have myself, since you came down, prepared your chamber by the placing

of things of which we know, so that He may not enter. Now let me guard

yourself. On your forehead I touch this piece of Sacred Wafer in the

name of the Father, the Son, and----”

There was a fearful scream which almost froze our hearts to hear. As he

had placed the Wafer on Mina’s forehead, it had seared it--had burned

into the flesh as though it had been a piece of white-hot metal. My poor

darling’s brain had told her the significance of the fact as quickly as

her nerves received the pain of it; and the two so overwhelmed her that

her overwrought nature had its voice in that dreadful scream. But the

words to her thought came quickly; the echo of the scream had not ceased

to ring on the air when there came the reaction, and she sank on her

knees on the floor in an agony of abasement. Pulling her beautiful hair

over her face, as the leper of old his mantle, she wailed out:--

“Unclean! Unclean! Even the Almighty shuns my polluted flesh! I must

bear this mark of shame upon my forehead until the Judgment Day.” They

all paused. I had thrown myself beside her in an agony of helpless

grief, and putting my arms around held her tight. For a few minutes our

sorrowful hearts beat together, whilst the friends around us turned away

their eyes that ran tears silently. Then Van Helsing turned and said

gravely; so gravely that I could not help feeling that he was in some

way inspired, and was stating things outside himself:--

“It may be that you may have to bear that mark till God himself see fit,

as He most surely shall, on the Judgment Day, to redress all wrongs of

the earth and of His children that He has placed thereon. And oh, Madam

Mina, my dear, my dear, may we who love you be there to see, when that

red scar, the sign of God’s knowledge of what has been, shall pass away,

and leave your forehead as pure as the heart we know. For so surely as

we live, that scar shall pass away when God sees right to lift the

burden that is hard upon us. Till then we bear our Cross, as His Son did

in obedience to His Will. It may be that we are chosen instruments of

His good pleasure, and that we ascend to His bidding as that other

through stripes and shame; through tears and blood; through doubts and

fears, and all that makes the difference between God and man.”

There was hope in his words, and comfort; and they made for resignation.

Mina and I both felt so, and simultaneously we each took one of the old

man’s hands and bent over and kissed it. Then without a word we all

knelt down together, and, all holding hands, swore to be true to each