beautiful colour since she has been here. I noticed that the old men did

not lose any time in coming up and sitting near her when we sat down.

She is so sweet with old people; I think they all fell in love with her

on the spot. Even my old man succumbed and did not contradict her, but

gave me double share instead. I got him on the subject of the legends,

and he went off at once into a sort of sermon. I must try to remember it

and put it down:--

“It be all fool-talk, lock, stock, and barrel; that’s what it be, an’

nowt else. These bans an’ wafts an’ boh-ghosts an’ barguests an’ bogles

an’ all anent them is only fit to set bairns an’ dizzy women

a-belderin’. They be nowt but air-blebs. They, an’ all grims an’ signs

an’ warnin’s, be all invented by parsons an’ illsome beuk-bodies an’

railway touters to skeer an’ scunner hafflin’s, an’ to get folks to do

somethin’ that they don’t other incline to. It makes me ireful to think

o’ them. Why, it’s them that, not content with printin’ lies on paper

an’ preachin’ them out of pulpits, does want to be cuttin’ them on the

tombstones. Look here all around you in what airt ye will; all them

steans, holdin’ up their heads as well as they can out of their pride,

is acant--simply tumblin’ down with the weight o’ the lies wrote on

them, ‘Here lies the body’ or ‘Sacred to the memory’ wrote on all of

them, an’ yet in nigh half of them there bean’t no bodies at all; an’

the memories of them bean’t cared a pinch of snuff about, much less

sacred. Lies all of them, nothin’ but lies of one kind or another! My

gog, but it’ll be a quare scowderment at the Day of Judgment when they

come tumblin’ up in their death-sarks, all jouped together an’ tryin’ to

drag their tombsteans with them to prove how good they was; some of them

trimmlin’ and ditherin’, with their hands that dozzened an’ slippy from

lyin’ in the sea that they can’t even keep their grup o’ them.”

I could see from the old fellow’s self-satisfied air and the way in

which he looked round for the approval of his cronies that he was

“showing off,” so I put in a word to keep him going:--

“Oh, Mr. Swales, you can’t be serious. Surely these tombstones are not

all wrong?”

“Yabblins! There may be a poorish few not wrong, savin’ where they make

out the people too good; for there be folk that do think a balm-bowl be

like the sea, if only it be their own. The whole thing be only lies. Now

look you here; you come here a stranger, an’ you see this kirk-garth.” I

nodded, for I thought it better to assent, though I did not quite

understand his dialect. I knew it had something to do with the church.

He went on: “And you consate that all these steans be aboon folk that be

happed here, snod an’ snog?” I assented again. “Then that be just where

the lie comes in. Why, there be scores of these lay-beds that be toom as

old Dun’s ’bacca-box on Friday night.” He nudged one of his companions,

and they all laughed. “And my gog! how could they be otherwise? Look at

that one, the aftest abaft the bier-bank: read it!” I went over and

read:--

“Edward Spencelagh, master mariner, murdered by pirates off the coast of

Andres, April, 1854, æt. 30.” When I came back Mr. Swales went on:--

“Who brought him home, I wonder, to hap him here? Murdered off the coast

of Andres! an’ you consated his body lay under! Why, I could name ye a

dozen whose bones lie in the Greenland seas above”--he pointed

northwards--“or where the currents may have drifted them. There be the

steans around ye. Ye can, with your young eyes, read the small-print of

the lies from here. This Braithwaite Lowrey--I knew his father, lost in

the _Lively_ off Greenland in ’20; or Andrew Woodhouse, drowned in the

same seas in 1777; or John Paxton, drowned off Cape Farewell a year

later; or old John Rawlings, whose grandfather sailed with me, drowned

in the Gulf of Finland in ’50. Do ye think that all these men will have

to make a rush to Whitby when the trumpet sounds? I have me antherums

aboot it! I tell ye that when they got here they’d be jommlin’ an’

jostlin’ one another that way that it ’ud be like a fight up on the ice

in the old days, when we’d be at one another from daylight to dark, an’

tryin’ to tie up our cuts by the light of the aurora borealis.” This was

evidently local pleasantry, for the old man cackled over it, and his

cronies joined in with gusto.

“But,” I said, “surely you are not quite correct, for you start on the

assumption that all the poor people, or their spirits, will have to