lively. And even if he did catch the train he would not avoid his

boss’s anger as the office assistant would have been there to see the

five o’clock train go, he would have put in his report about Gregor’s

not being there a long time ago. The office assistant was the boss’s

man, spineless, and with no understanding. What about if he reported

sick? But that would be extremely strained and suspicious as in five

years of service Gregor had never once yet been ill. His boss would

certainly come round with the doctor from the medical insurance

company, accuse his parents of having a lazy son, and accept the

doctor’s recommendation not to make any claim as the doctor believed

that no-one was ever ill but that many were workshy. And what’s more,

would he have been entirely wrong in this case? Gregor did in fact,

apart from excessive sleepiness after sleeping for so long, feel

completely well and even felt much hungrier than usual.

He was still hurriedly thinking all this through, unable to decide to

get out of the bed, when the clock struck quarter to seven. There was a

cautious knock at the door near his head. “Gregor”, somebody called—it

was his mother—“it’s quarter to seven. Didn’t you want to go

somewhere?” That gentle voice! Gregor was shocked when he heard his own

voice answering, it could hardly be recognised as the voice he had had

before. As if from deep inside him, there was a painful and

uncontrollable squeaking mixed in with it, the words could be made out

at first but then there was a sort of echo which made them unclear,

leaving the hearer unsure whether he had heard properly or not. Gregor

had wanted to give a full answer and explain everything, but in the

circumstances contented himself with saying: “Yes, mother, yes,

thank-you, I’m getting up now.” The change in Gregor’s voice probably

could not be noticed outside through the wooden door, as his mother was

satisfied with this explanation and shuffled away. But this short

conversation made the other members of the family aware that Gregor,

against their expectations was still at home, and soon his father came

knocking at one of the side doors, gently, but with his fist. “Gregor,

Gregor”, he called, “what’s wrong?” And after a short while he called

again with a warning deepness in his voice: “Gregor! Gregor!” At the

other side door his sister came plaintively: “Gregor? Aren’t you well?

Do you need anything?” Gregor answered to both sides: “I’m ready, now”,

making an effort to remove all the strangeness from his voice by

enunciating very carefully and putting long pauses between each,

individual word. His father went back to his breakfast, but his sister

whispered: “Gregor, open the door, I beg of you.” Gregor, however, had

no thought of opening the door, and instead congratulated himself for

his cautious habit, acquired from his travelling, of locking all doors

at night even when he was at home.

The first thing he wanted to do was to get up in peace without being

disturbed, to get dressed, and most of all to have his breakfast. Only

then would he consider what to do next, as he was well aware that he

would not bring his thoughts to any sensible conclusions by lying in

bed. He remembered that he had often felt a slight pain in bed, perhaps

caused by lying awkwardly, but that had always turned out to be pure

imagination and he wondered how his imaginings would slowly resolve

themselves today. He did not have the slightest doubt that the change

in his voice was nothing more than the first sign of a serious cold,

which was an occupational hazard for travelling salesmen.

It was a simple matter to throw off the covers; he only had to blow

himself up a little and they fell off by themselves. But it became

difficult after that, especially as he was so exceptionally broad. He

would have used his arms and his hands to push himself up; but instead

of them he only had all those little legs continuously moving in

different directions, and which he was moreover unable to control. If

he wanted to bend one of them, then that was the first one that would

stretch itself out; and if he finally managed to do what he wanted with

that leg, all the others seemed to be set free and would move about

painfully. “This is something that can’t be done in bed”, Gregor said

to himself, “so don’t keep trying to do it”.

The first thing he wanted to do was get the lower part of his body out

of the bed, but he had never seen this lower part, and could not

imagine what it looked like; it turned out to be too hard to move; it

went so slowly; and finally, almost in a frenzy, when he carelessly

shoved himself forwards with all the force he could gather, he chose

the wrong direction, hit hard against the lower bedpost, and learned

from the burning pain he felt that the lower part of his body might

well, at present, be the most sensitive.

So then he tried to get the top part of his body out of the bed first,

carefully turning his head to the side. This he managed quite easily,