How stands your disposition to be Married?

 Iuli. It is an houre that I dreame not of

 Nur. An houre, were I not thine onely Nurse, I would

say thou had'st suckt wisedome from thy teat

 Old La. Well thinke of marriage now, yonger then you

Heere in Verona, Ladies of esteeme,

Are made already Mothers. By my count

I was your Mother, much vpon these yeares

That you are now a Maide, thus then in briefe:

The valiant Paris seekes you for his loue

 Nurse. A man young Lady, Lady, such a man as all

the world. Why hee's a man of waxe

 Old La. Veronas Summer hath not such a flower

 Nurse. Nay hee's a flower, infaith a very flower

 Old La. What say you, can you loue the Gentleman?

This night you shall behold him at our Feast,

Read ore the volume of young Paris face,

And find delight, writ there with Beauties pen:

Examine euery seuerall liniament,

And see how one another lends content:

And what obscur'd in this faire volume lies,

Find written in the Margent of his eyes.

This precious Booke of Loue, this vnbound Louer,

To Beautifie him, onely lacks a Couer.

The fish liues in the Sea, and 'tis much pride

For faire without, the faire within to hide:

That Booke in manies eyes doth share the glorie,

That in Gold claspes, Lockes in the Golden storie:

So shall you share all that he doth possesse,

By hauing him, making your selfe no lesse

 Nurse. No lesse, nay bigger: women grow by men

 Old La. Speake briefly, can you like of Paris loue?

 Iuli. Ile looke to like, if looking liking moue.

But no more deepe will I endart mine eye,

Then your consent giues strength to make flye.

Enter a Seruing man.

 Ser. Madam, the guests are come, supper seru'd vp, you

cal'd, my young Lady askt for, the Nurse cur'st in the Pantery,

and euery thing in extremitie: I must hence to wait, I

beseech you follow straight.

Enter.

 Mo. We follow thee, Iuliet, the Countie staies

 Nurse. Goe Gyrle, seeke happie nights to happy daies.

Exeunt.

Enter Romeo, Mercutio, Benuolio, with fiue or sixe other Maskers,

Torch-bearers.

 Rom. What shall this spech be spoke for our excuse?

Or shall we on without Apologie?

 Ben. The date is out of such prolixitie,

Weele haue no Cupid, hood winkt with a skarfe,

Bearing a Tartars painted Bow of lath,

Skaring the Ladies like a Crow-keeper.

But let them measure vs by what they will,

Weele measure them with a Measure, and be gone

 Rom. Giue me a Torch, I am not for this ambling.

Being but heauy I will beare the light

 Mer. Nay gentle Romeo, we must haue you dance

 Rom. Not I beleeue me, you haue dancing shooes

With nimble soles, I haue a soale of Lead

So stakes me to the ground, I cannot moue

 Mer. You are a Louer, borrow Cupids wings,

And soare with them aboue a common bound

 Rom. I am too sore enpearced with his shaft,

To soare with his light feathers, and to bound:

I cannot bound a pitch aboue dull woe,

Vnder loues heauy burthen doe I sinke

 Hora. And to sinke in it should you burthen loue,

Too great oppression for a tender thing

 Rom. Is loue a tender thing? it is too rough,

Too rude, too boysterous, and it pricks like thorne

 Mer. If loue be rough with you, be rough with loue,

Pricke loue for pricking, and you beat loue downe,

Giue me a Case to put my visage in,