a smile, "let me do what I can toward your silent motor, Tom. What are

you going to call it?"

"Oh, I don't know--hadn't thought of a name. I guess 'Air Scout' would

be as good as any. That's what it will be--a machine for silently

scouting in the air. And now to get down to brass tacks, as the poet

says, I believe I will--"

"Gentleman to see you, Mr. Swift," interrupted Jackson.

"Bless my penwiper!" cried Mr. Damon. "More visitors! I hope it isn't

Gale or Ware come back to see what they can spy on!"

CHAPTER VII

A PROBLEM IN SOUND

Tom Swift looked up with a distinct appearance of being annoyed that

was unusual with him, for he was, nearly always, good-natured. But the

frown that had replaced the pleasant look on his face while he was

talking to Mr. Damon about the projected new air scout was at once

wiped away as he looked at the card Jackson held out to him.

"Bring him in right away!" he ordered. "He needn't have stood on that

ceremony."

"Well, he said it was a business call," returned the mechanician with a

cheerful grin, "and he said he wanted it done according to form. So he

gave me his card to bring you."

"Who is it?" asked Mr. Damon, with the privilege of an old friend.

"It's Ned Newton," Tom answered; "though why he's putting on all this

formality I can't fathom."

Jackson went back to the main gate and told the man on guard there to

admit Ned, who had so formally sent in his card.

"Ah, Mr. Swift, I believe?" began the bank employee with that suave,

formal air which usually precedes a business meeting.

"That is my name," said Tom, with a suppressed grin, and he spoke as

stiffly as though to a perfect stranger.

"Mr. Tom Swift, the great inventor?" went on Ned.

"Yes."

"Ah, then I am at the right place. Just sign here, please, on the

dotted line," and he held out a blank form, and a fountain pen to Tom,

who took them half mechanically.

"Huh? What's the big idea, Ned?" asked the young inventor, unable

longer to carry on the joke. "Is this a warrant for my arrest, or

merely a testimonial to you. If it's the latter, and concerns your

nerve, I'll gladly sign it."

"Well, it's something like that!" laughed Ned. "That's your application

for another block of Liberty Bonds, Tom, and I want you, as a personal

favor to me, as a business favor to the bank, and as your plain duty to

Uncle Sam, to double your last subscription."

Tom looked at the sum Ned had filled in on the blank form, and uttered

a slight whistle of surprise.

"That's all right now," said Ned, with the air of a professional

salesman. "You can stand that and more, too. I'm letting you off easy.

Why, I got Mary's father--Mr. Nestor--for twice what he took last time,

and Mary herself--hard as she's working for the Red Cross--gave me a

nice application. So it's up to you to--"

"Nuff said!" exclaimed Tom, sententiously, as he signed his name. "I

may have to reconsider my recent refusal of the offer of the Universal

Flying Machine Company, though, if I haven't money enough to meet this

subscription, Ned."

"Oh, you'll meet it all right! Much obliged," and Ned folded the

Liberty Bond subscription paper and put it in his pocket. "But did you

turn down the offer from those people?"

"I did," answered Tom. "But how did you know about it, Ned?"

"First let me say that I'm glad you decided to have nothing to do with

them. They're a rich firm, and have lots of money, but I wouldn't trust

'em, even if they have some government contracts. The way I happened

to know they were likely to make you an offer is this," continued Ned

Newton.

"They do business with one of the New York banks with which my

bank--notice the accent on the my, Tom--is connected. The other day I