body, I faced the problem of the Martians and the fate of my wife. For

the former I had no data; I could imagine a hundred things, and so,

unhappily, I could for the latter. And suddenly that night became

terrible. I found myself sitting up in bed, staring at the dark. I

found myself praying that the Heat-Ray might have suddenly and

painlessly struck her out of being. Since the night of my return from

Leatherhead I had not prayed. I had uttered prayers, fetish prayers,

had prayed as heathens mutter charms when I was in extremity; but now I

prayed indeed, pleading steadfastly and sanely, face to face with the

darkness of God. Strange night! Strangest in this, that so soon as dawn

had come, I, who had talked with God, crept out of the house like a rat

leaving its hiding place—a creature scarcely larger, an inferior

animal, a thing that for any passing whim of our masters might be

hunted and killed. Perhaps they also prayed confidently to God. Surely,

if we have learned nothing else, this war has taught us pity—pity for

those witless souls that suffer our dominion.

The morning was bright and fine, and the eastern sky glowed pink, and

was fretted with little golden clouds. In the road that runs from the

top of Putney Hill to Wimbledon was a number of poor vestiges of the

panic torrent that must have poured Londonward on the Sunday night

after the fighting began. There was a little two-wheeled cart inscribed

with the name of Thomas Lobb, Greengrocer, New Malden, with a smashed

wheel and an abandoned tin trunk; there was a straw hat trampled into

the now hardened mud, and at the top of West Hill a lot of

blood-stained glass about the overturned water trough. My movements

were languid, my plans of the vaguest. I had an idea of going to

Leatherhead, though I knew that there I had the poorest chance of

finding my wife. Certainly, unless death had overtaken them suddenly,

my cousins and she would have fled thence; but it seemed to me I might

find or learn there whither the Surrey people had fled. I knew I wanted

to find my wife, that my heart ached for her and the world of men, but

I had no clear idea how the finding might be done. I was also sharply

aware now of my intense loneliness. From the corner I went, under cover

of a thicket of trees and bushes, to the edge of Wimbledon Common,

stretching wide and far.

That dark expanse was lit in patches by yellow gorse and broom; there

was no red weed to be seen, and as I prowled, hesitating, on the verge

of the open, the sun rose, flooding it all with light and vitality. I

came upon a busy swarm of little frogs in a swampy place among the

trees. I stopped to look at them, drawing a lesson from their stout

resolve to live. And presently, turning suddenly, with an odd feeling

of being watched, I beheld something crouching amid a clump of bushes.

I stood regarding this. I made a step towards it, and it rose up and

became a man armed with a cutlass. I approached him slowly. He stood

silent and motionless, regarding me.

As I drew nearer I perceived he was dressed in clothes as dusty and

filthy as my own; he looked, indeed, as though he had been dragged

through a culvert. Nearer, I distinguished the green slime of ditches

mixing with the pale drab of dried clay and shiny, coaly patches. His

black hair fell over his eyes, and his face was dark and dirty and

sunken, so that at first I did not recognise him. There was a red cut

across the lower part of his face.

“Stop!” he cried, when I was within ten yards of him, and I stopped.

His voice was hoarse. “Where do you come from?” he said.

I thought, surveying him.

“I come from Mortlake,” I said. “I was buried near the pit the Martians

made about their cylinder. I have worked my way out and escaped.”

“There is no food about here,” he said. “This is my country. All this

hill down to the river, and back to Clapham, and up to the edge of the

common. There is only food for one. Which way are you going?”

I answered slowly.

“I don’t know,” I said. “I have been buried in the ruins of a house

thirteen or fourteen days. I don’t know what has happened.”