"That's what I intend doing. Come on. The airship will be all right

until we come back."

"Better take a light--hadn't you? It's dark, even if the moon does show

now and then," suggested Mr. Damon.

"Guess you are right," agreed Tom. Aboard his airship there were

several small but powerful portable electric lights, and after securing

one of these Tom and Mr. Damon started for the spot whence the call for

help had come. As they walked along, their feet making no noise on the

soft turf, they listened intently for a repetition of the call for aid.

"I don't hear anything," said Tom, after a bit.

"Nor I," added Mr. Damon. "We don't know exactly which way to go, Tom."

"That's right. Guess we'd better give him a hail; whoever it is."

Tom came to a halt, and raising his voice to a shout called:

"Hello there! What's the matter? We'll help you if you can tell us

which way to come!"

They both listened intently, but no voice answered them. At the same

time, however, they were aware of a sound as of hurrying feet, and

there seemed to be muttered imprecations not far away. Tom and Mr.

Damon looked in the direction of the sound, and the young inventor

flashed his light. But there was a clump of bushes and trees at that

point and the electrical rays did not penetrate very far.

"Some one's over there!" exclaimed Tom in a whisper. "We'd better go

and see what it is."

"All right," agreed Mr. Damon, and he, too, spoke in a low voice.

Why they did this when their previous talk had been in ordinary tones,

and when Tom had shouted so loudly, they did not stop to reason about

or explain just then. But later they both admitted that they whispered

because they thought there was something wrong on foot--because they

feared a crime was being committed and they wanted to surprise the

perpetrators if they could.

And it was this fact of their whispering that enabled the two to hear

something that, otherwise, they might not have heard. And this was the

sound of some vehicle hurrying away--an automobile, if Tom was any

judge. The cries for help had been succeeded by stifled vocal sounds,

and these, in turn, by the noise of wheels on the ground.

"What does it all mean?" asked Mr. Damon in a whisper.

"I don't know," answered Tom, resolutely, "but we've got to find out.

Come on."

They advanced toward the dark clump of trees and low bushes. There was

no need to be especially cautious in regard to being silent, as their

feet made little, if any, sound on the deep grass. And, as Tom walked

in advance, now and then flashing his light, Mr. Damon suddenly caught

him by the coat.

"What is it?" asked the young inventor.

"Look! Just over the top of that hill, where the moon shines. Don't

you see an automobile outlined?"

Tom looked quickly.

"I do," he answered. "There's a road from here, just the other side of

those trees, to that hill. The auto must have gone that way. Well,

there's no use in trying to follow it now. Whoever it was has gotten

away."

"But they may have left some one behind, Tom. We'd better look in and

around those trees."

"I suppose we had, but I don't believe we'll find anything. I can

pretty nearly guess, now, what it was."

"What?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Well, some chauffeur was out for a ride in his employer's car without

permission. He got here, had an accident--maybe some friends he took

for a ride were hurt and they called for help. The chauffeur knew if

there was any publicity he'd be blamed, and so he got away as quickly

as he could. Guess the accident--if that's what it was--didn't amount

to much, or they couldn't have run the car off. We've had our trouble

for our pains."

"Well, maybe you're right, Tom Swift, but all the same, I'd like to

have a look among those trees," said Mr. Damon.