to understand by it that he thought of paying his addresses to one of

her younger girls, and Mary might have been prevailed on to accept him.

She rated his abilities much higher than any of the others: there was a

solidity in his reflections which often struck her; and though by no

means so clever as herself, she thought that, if encouraged to read and

improve himself by such an example as hers, he might become a very

agreeable companion. But on the following morning every hope of this

kind was done away. Miss Lucas called soon after breakfast, and in a

private conference with Elizabeth related the event of the day before.

The possibility of Mr. Collins’s fancying himself in love with her

friend had once occurred to Elizabeth within the last day or two: but

that Charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from possibility

as that she could encourage him herself; and her astonishment was

consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and

she could not help crying out,--

“Engaged to Mr. Collins! my dear Charlotte, impossible!”

The steady countenance which Miss Lucas had commanded in telling her

story gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so direct a

reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected, she soon regained

her composure, and calmly replied,--

“Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza? Do you think it incredible

that Mr. Collins should be able to procure any woman’s good opinion,

because he was not so happy as to succeed with you?”

But Elizabeth had now recollected herself; and, making a strong effort

for it, was able to assure her, with tolerable firmness, that the

prospect of their relationship was highly grateful to her, and that she

wished her all imaginable happiness.

“I see what you are feeling,” replied Charlotte; “you must be surprised,

very much surprised, so lately as Mr. Collins was wishing to marry you.

But when you have had time to think it all over, I hope you will be

satisfied with what I have done. I am not romantic, you know. I never

was. I ask only a comfortable home; and, considering Mr. Collins’s

character, connections, and situation in life, I am convinced that my

chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can boast on

entering the marriage state.”

Elizabeth quietly answered “undoubtedly;” and, after an awkward pause,

they returned to the rest of the family. Charlotte did not stay much

longer; and Elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard. It

was a long time before she became at all reconciled to the idea of so

unsuitable a match. The strangeness of Mr. Collins’s making two offers

of marriage within three days was nothing in comparison of his being now

accepted. She had always felt that Charlotte’s opinion of matrimony was

not exactly like her own; but she could not have supposed it possible

that, when called into action, she would have sacrificed every better

feeling to worldly advantage. Charlotte, the wife of Mr. Collins, was a

most humiliating picture! And to the pang of a friend disgracing

herself, and sunk in her esteem, was added the distressing conviction

that it was impossible for that friend to be tolerably happy in the lot

she had chosen.

[Illustration:

 “Protested he must be entirely mistaken.”

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

CHAPTER XXIII.

[Illustration]

Elizabeth was sitting with her mother and sisters, reflecting on what

she had heard, and doubting whether she was authorized to mention it,

when Sir William Lucas himself appeared, sent by his daughter to

announce her engagement to the family. With many compliments to them,

and much self-gratulation on the prospect of a connection between the

houses, he unfolded the matter,--to an audience not merely wondering,

but incredulous; for Mrs. Bennet, with more perseverance than

politeness, protested he must be entirely mistaken; and Lydia, always

unguarded and often uncivil, boisterously exclaimed,--

“Good Lord! Sir William, how can you tell such a story? Do not you know

that Mr. Collins wants to marry Lizzy?”

Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne

without anger such treatment: but Sir William’s good-breeding carried

him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the

truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the

most forbearing courtesy.

Elizabeth, feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant

a situation, now put herself forward to confirm his account, by

mentioning her prior knowledge of it from Charlotte herself; and

endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters,

by the earnestness of her congratulations to Sir William, in which she

was readily joined by Jane, and by making a variety of remarks on the

happiness that might be expected from the match, the excellent character

of Mr. Collins, and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London.

Mrs. Bennet was, in fact, too much overpowered to say a great deal while

Sir William remained; but no sooner had he left them than her feelings

found a rapid vent. In the first place, she persisted in disbelieving

the whole of the matter; secondly, she was very sure that Mr. Collins