that her penance might best be wrought out by this unutterable pain,

she resisted the impulse, and sat erect, pale as death, looking sadly

into little Pearl’s wild eyes. Still came the battery of flowers,

almost invariably hitting the mark, and covering the mother’s breast

with hurts for which she could find no balm in this world, nor knew

how to seek it in another. At last, her shot being all expended, the

child stood still and gazed at Hester, with that little, laughing

image of a fiend peeping out—or, whether it peeped or no, her mother

so imagined it—from the unsearchable abyss of her black eyes.

“Child, what art thou?” cried the mother.

“O, I am your little Pearl!” answered the child.

But, while she said it, Pearl laughed, and began to dance up and down,

with the humorsome gesticulation of a little imp, whose next freak

might be to fly up the chimney.

“Art thou my child, in very truth?” asked Hester.

Nor did she put the question altogether idly, but, for the moment,

with a portion of genuine earnestness; for, such was Pearl’s wonderful

intelligence, that her mother half doubted whether she were not

acquainted with the secret spell of her existence, and might not now

reveal herself.

“Yes; I am little Pearl!” repeated the child, continuing her antics.

“Thou art not my child! Thou art no Pearl of mine!” said the mother,

half playfully; for it was often the case that a sportive impulse came

over her, in the midst of her deepest suffering. “Tell me, then, what

thou art, and who sent thee hither.”

“Tell me, mother!” said the child, seriously, coming up to Hester, and

pressing herself close to her knees. “Do thou tell me!”

“Thy Heavenly Father sent thee!” answered Hester Prynne.

But she said it with a hesitation that did not escape the acuteness of

the child. Whether moved only by her ordinary freakishness, or

because an evil spirit prompted her, she put up her small forefinger,

and touched the scarlet letter.

“He did not send me!” cried she, positively. “I have no Heavenly

Father!”

“Hush, Pearl, hush! Thou must not talk so!” answered the mother,

suppressing a groan. “He sent us all into this world. He sent even me,

thy mother. Then, much more, thee! Or, if not, thou strange and elfish

child, whence didst thou come?”

“Tell me! Tell me!” repeated Pearl, no longer seriously, but laughing,

and capering about the floor. “It is thou that must tell me!”

But Hester could not resolve the query, being herself in a dismal

labyrinth of doubt. She remembered—betwixt a smile and a shudder—the

talk of the neighboring towns-people; who, seeking vainly elsewhere

for the child’s paternity, and observing some of her odd attributes,

had given out that poor little Pearl was a demon offspring; such as,

ever since old Catholic times, had occasionally been seen on earth,

through the agency of their mother’s sin, and to promote some foul and

wicked purpose. Luther, according to the scandal of his monkish

enemies, was a brat of that hellish breed; nor was Pearl the only

child to whom this inauspicious origin was assigned, among the New

England Puritans.

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 VII.

 THE GOVERNOR’S HALL.

[Illustration]

Hester Prynne went, one day, to the mansion of Governor Bellingham,

with a pair of gloves, which she had fringed and embroidered to his

order, and which were to be worn on some great occasion of state; for,

though the chances of a popular election had caused this former ruler

to descend a step or two from the highest rank, he still held an

honorable and influential place among the colonial magistracy.

Another and far more important reason than the delivery of a pair of

embroidered gloves impelled Hester, at this time, to seek an interview

with a personage of so much power and activity in the affairs of the

settlement. It had reached her ears, that there was a design on the

part of some of the leading inhabitants, cherishing the more rigid

order of principles in religion and government, to deprive her of her

child. On the supposition that Pearl, as already hinted, was of demon

origin, these good people not unreasonably argued that a Christian

interest in the mother’s soul required them to remove such a

stumbling-block from her path. If the child, on the other hand, were

really capable of moral and religious growth, and possessed the

elements of ultimate salvation, then, surely, it would enjoy all the

fairer prospect of these advantages, by being transferred to wiser and

better guardianship than Hester Prynne’s. Among those who promoted the

design, Governor Bellingham was said to be one of the most busy. It

may appear singular, and indeed, not a little ludicrous, that an