in ignorance. I only saw Dr. Seward for a moment, and told him where I

was off to, promising to come back and tell the rest so soon as I should

have found out anything. I drove to Walworth and found, with some

difficulty, Potter’s Court. Mr. Smollet’s spelling misled me, as I asked

for Poter’s Court instead of Potter’s Court. However, when I had found

the court, I had no difficulty in discovering Corcoran’s lodging-house.

When I asked the man who came to the door for the “depite,” he shook his

head, and said: “I dunno ’im. There ain’t no such a person ’ere; I never

’eard of ’im in all my bloomin’ days. Don’t believe there ain’t nobody

of that kind livin’ ere or anywheres.” I took out Smollet’s letter, and

as I read it it seemed to me that the lesson of the spelling of the name

of the court might guide me. “What are you?” I asked.

“I’m the depity,” he answered. I saw at once that I was on the right

track; phonetic spelling had again misled me. A half-crown tip put the

deputy’s knowledge at my disposal, and I learned that Mr. Bloxam, who

had slept off the remains of his beer on the previous night at

Corcoran’s, had left for his work at Poplar at five o’clock that

morning. He could not tell me where the place of work was situated, but

he had a vague idea that it was some kind of a “new-fangled ware’us”;

and with this slender clue I had to start for Poplar. It was twelve

o’clock before I got any satisfactory hint of such a building, and this

I got at a coffee-shop, where some workmen were having their dinner. One

of these suggested that there was being erected at Cross Angel Street a

new “cold storage” building; and as this suited the condition of a

“new-fangled ware’us,” I at once drove to it. An interview with a surly

gatekeeper and a surlier foreman, both of whom were appeased with the

coin of the realm, put me on the track of Bloxam; he was sent for on my

suggesting that I was willing to pay his day’s wages to his foreman for

the privilege of asking him a few questions on a private matter. He was

a smart enough fellow, though rough of speech and bearing. When I had

promised to pay for his information and given him an earnest, he told me

that he had made two journeys between Carfax and a house in Piccadilly,

and had taken from this house to the latter nine great boxes--“main

heavy ones”--with a horse and cart hired by him for this purpose. I

asked him if he could tell me the number of the house in Piccadilly, to

which he replied:--

“Well, guv’nor, I forgits the number, but it was only a few doors from a

big white church or somethink of the kind, not long built. It was a

dusty old ’ouse, too, though nothin’ to the dustiness of the ’ouse we

tooked the bloomin’ boxes from.”

“How did you get into the houses if they were both empty?”

“There was the old party what engaged me a-waitin’ in the ’ouse at

Purfleet. He ’elped me to lift the boxes and put them in the dray. Curse

me, but he was the strongest chap I ever struck, an’ him a old feller,

with a white moustache, one that thin you would think he couldn’t throw

a shadder.”

How this phrase thrilled through me!

“Why, ’e took up ’is end o’ the boxes like they was pounds of tea, and

me a-puffin’ an’ a-blowin’ afore I could up-end mine anyhow--an’ I’m no

chicken, neither.”

“How did you get into the house in Piccadilly?” I asked.

“He was there too. He must ’a’ started off and got there afore me, for

when I rung of the bell he kem an’ opened the door ’isself an’ ’elped me

to carry the boxes into the ’all.”

“The whole nine?” I asked.

“Yus; there was five in the first load an’ four in the second. It was

main dry work, an’ I don’t so well remember ’ow I got ’ome.” I

interrupted him:--

“Were the boxes left in the hall?”

“Yus; it was a big ’all, an’ there was nothin’ else in it.” I made one

more attempt to further matters:--

“You didn’t have any key?”

“Never used no key nor nothink. The old gent, he opened the door ’isself

an’ shut it again when I druv off. I don’t remember the last time--but

that was the beer.”

“And you can’t remember the number of the house?”

“No, sir. But ye needn’t have no difficulty about that. It’s a ’igh ’un

with a stone front with a bow on it, an’ ’igh steps up to the door. I

know them steps, ’avin’ ’ad to carry the boxes up with three loafers

what come round to earn a copper. The old gent give them shillin’s, an’

they seein’ they got so much, they wanted more; but ’e took one of them

by the shoulder and was like to throw ’im down the steps, till the lot