the same minister returned not from the forest. He might have said to

the friends who greeted him,—“I am not the man for whom you take me!

I left him yonder in the forest, withdrawn into a secret dell, by a

mossy tree-trunk, and near a melancholy brook! Go, seek your minister,

and see if his emaciated figure, his thin cheek, his white, heavy,

pain-wrinkled brow, be not flung down there, like a cast-off

garment!” His friends, no doubt, would still have insisted with

him,—“Thou art thyself the man!”—but the error would have been their

own, not his.

Before Mr. Dimmesdale reached home, his inner man gave him other

evidences of a revolution in the sphere of thought and feeling. In

truth, nothing short of a total change of dynasty and moral code, in

that interior kingdom, was adequate to account for the impulses now

communicated to the unfortunate and startled minister. At every step

he was incited to do some strange, wild, wicked thing or other, with a

sense that it would be at once involuntary and intentional; in spite

of himself, yet growing out of a profounder self than that which

opposed the impulse. For instance, he met one of his own deacons. The

good old man addressed him with the paternal affection and patriarchal

privilege, which his venerable age, his upright and holy character,

and his station in the Church, entitled him to use; and, conjoined

with this, the deep, almost worshipping respect, which the minister’s

professional and private claims alike demanded. Never was there a more

beautiful example of how the majesty of age and wisdom may comport

with the obeisance and respect enjoined upon it, as from a lower

social rank, and inferior order of endowment, towards a higher. Now,

during a conversation of some two or three moments between the

Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale and this excellent and hoary-bearded deacon,

it was only by the most careful self-control that the former could

refrain from uttering certain blasphemous suggestions that rose into

his mind, respecting the communion supper. He absolutely trembled and

turned pale as ashes, lest his tongue should wag itself, in utterance

of these horrible matters, and plead his own consent for so doing,

without his having fairly given it. And, even with this terror in his

heart, he could hardly avoid laughing, to imagine how the sanctified

old patriarchal deacon would have been petrified by his minister’s

impiety!

Again, another incident of the same nature. Hurrying along the street,

the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale encountered the eldest female member of

his church; a most pious and exemplary old dame; poor, widowed,

lonely, and with a heart as full of reminiscences about her dead

husband and children, and her dead friends of long ago, as a

burial-ground is full of storied gravestones. Yet all this, which

would else have been such heavy sorrow, was made almost a solemn joy

to her devout old soul, by religious consolations and the truths of

Scripture, wherewith she had fed herself continually for more than

thirty years. And, since Mr. Dimmesdale had taken her in charge, the

good grandam’s chief earthly comfort—which, unless it had been

likewise a heavenly comfort, could have been none at all—was to meet

her pastor, whether casually, or of set purpose, and be refreshed with

a word of warm, fragrant, heaven-breathing Gospel truth, from his

beloved lips, into her dulled, but rapturously attentive ear. But, on

this occasion, up to the moment of putting his lips to the old woman’s

ear, Mr. Dimmesdale, as the great enemy of souls would have it, could

recall no text of Scripture, nor aught else, except a brief, pithy,

and, as it then appeared to him, unanswerable argument against the

immortality of the human soul. The instilment thereof into her mind

would probably have caused this aged sister to drop down dead, at

once, as by the effect of an intensely poisonous infusion. What he

really did whisper, the minister could never afterwards recollect.

There was, perhaps, a fortunate disorder in his utterance, which

failed to impart any distinct idea to the good widow’s comprehension,

or which Providence interpreted after a method of its own. Assuredly,

as the minister looked back, he beheld an expression of divine

gratitude and ecstasy that seemed like the shine of the celestial city

on her face, so wrinkled and ashy pale.

Again, a third instance. After parting from the old church-member, he

met the youngest sister of them all. It was a maiden newly won—and

won by the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale’s own sermon, on the Sabbath after

his vigil—to barter the transitory pleasures of the world for the

heavenly hope, that was to assume brighter substance as life grew dark

around her, and which would gild the utter gloom with final glory. She

was fair and pure as a lily that had bloomed in Paradise. The minister

knew well that he was himself enshrined within the stainless sanctity

of her heart, which hung its snowy curtains about his image, imparting

to religion the warmth of love, and to love a religious purity. Satan,

that afternoon, had surely led the poor young girl away from her