we have a cruel and dreadful task. When you have eaten you shall learn

the rest, and I shall answer any questions you ask--if there be anything

which you do not understand, though it was apparent to us who were

present.”

_Mina Harker’s Journal._

_29 September._--After dinner I came with Dr. Seward to his study. He

brought back the phonograph from my room, and I took my typewriter. He

placed me in a comfortable chair, and arranged the phonograph so that I

could touch it without getting up, and showed me how to stop it in case

I should want to pause. Then he very thoughtfully took a chair, with his

back to me, so that I might be as free as possible, and began to read. I

put the forked metal to my ears and listened.

When the terrible story of Lucy’s death, and--and all that followed, was

done, I lay back in my chair powerless. Fortunately I am not of a

fainting disposition. When Dr. Seward saw me he jumped up with a

horrified exclamation, and hurriedly taking a case-bottle from a

cupboard, gave me some brandy, which in a few minutes somewhat restored

me. My brain was all in a whirl, and only that there came through all

the multitude of horrors, the holy ray of light that my dear, dear Lucy

was at last at peace, I do not think I could have borne it without

making a scene. It is all so wild, and mysterious, and strange that if I

had not known Jonathan’s experience in Transylvania I could not have

believed. As it was, I didn’t know what to believe, and so got out of my

difficulty by attending to something else. I took the cover off my

typewriter, and said to Dr. Seward:--

“Let me write this all out now. We must be ready for Dr. Van Helsing

when he comes. I have sent a telegram to Jonathan to come on here when

he arrives in London from Whitby. In this matter dates are everything,

and I think that if we get all our material ready, and have every item

put in chronological order, we shall have done much. You tell me that

Lord Godalming and Mr. Morris are coming too. Let us be able to tell him

when they come.” He accordingly set the phonograph at a slow pace, and I

began to typewrite from the beginning of the seventh cylinder. I used

manifold, and so took three copies of the diary, just as I had done with

all the rest. It was late when I got through, but Dr. Seward went about

his work of going his round of the patients; when he had finished he

came back and sat near me, reading, so that I did not feel too lonely

whilst I worked. How good and thoughtful he is; the world seems full of

good men--even if there _are_ monsters in it. Before I left him I

remembered what Jonathan put in his diary of the Professor’s

perturbation at reading something in an evening paper at the station at

Exeter; so, seeing that Dr. Seward keeps his newspapers, I borrowed the

files of “The Westminster Gazette” and “The Pall Mall Gazette,” and took

them to my room. I remember how much “The Dailygraph” and “The Whitby

Gazette,” of which I had made cuttings, helped us to understand the

terrible events at Whitby when Count Dracula landed, so I shall look

through the evening papers since then, and perhaps I shall get some new

light. I am not sleepy, and the work will help to keep me quiet.

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_30 September._--Mr. Harker arrived at nine o’clock. He had got his

wife’s wire just before starting. He is uncommonly clever, if one can

judge from his face, and full of energy. If this journal be true--and

judging by one’s own wonderful experiences, it must be--he is also a man

of great nerve. That going down to the vault a second time was a

remarkable piece of daring. After reading his account of it I was

prepared to meet a good specimen of manhood, but hardly the quiet,

business-like gentleman who came here to-day.

 * * * * *

_Later._--After lunch Harker and his wife went back to their own room,

and as I passed a while ago I heard the click of the typewriter. They

are hard at it. Mrs. Harker says that they are knitting together in

chronological order every scrap of evidence they have. Harker has got

the letters between the consignee of the boxes at Whitby and the

carriers in London who took charge of them. He is now reading his wife’s

typescript of my diary. I wonder what they make out of it. Here it