“What shall we do exactly?” asked Mr. Morris laconically. The Professor

paused before replying:--

“We shall at the first board that ship; then, when we have identified

the box, we shall place a branch of the wild rose on it. This we shall

fasten, for when it is there none can emerge; so at least says the

superstition. And to superstition must we trust at the first; it was

man’s faith in the early, and it have its root in faith still. Then,

when we get the opportunity that we seek, when none are near to see, we

shall open the box, and--and all will be well.”

“I shall not wait for any opportunity,” said Morris. “When I see the box

I shall open it and destroy the monster, though there were a thousand

men looking on, and if I am to be wiped out for it the next moment!” I

grasped his hand instinctively and found it as firm as a piece of steel.

I think he understood my look; I hope he did.

“Good boy,” said Dr. Van Helsing. “Brave boy. Quincey is all man. God

bless him for it. My child, believe me none of us shall lag behind or

pause from any fear. I do but say what we may do--what we must do. But,

indeed, indeed we cannot say what we shall do. There are so many things

which may happen, and their ways and their ends are so various that

until the moment we may not say. We shall all be armed, in all ways; and

when the time for the end has come, our effort shall not be lack. Now

let us to-day put all our affairs in order. Let all things which touch

on others dear to us, and who on us depend, be complete; for none of us

can tell what, or when, or how, the end may be. As for me, my own

affairs are regulate; and as I have nothing else to do, I shall go make

arrangements for the travel. I shall have all tickets and so forth for

our journey.”

There was nothing further to be said, and we parted. I shall now settle

up all my affairs of earth, and be ready for whatever may come....

 * * * * *

_Later._--It is all done; my will is made, and all complete. Mina if she

survive is my sole heir. If it should not be so, then the others who

have been so good to us shall have remainder.

It is now drawing towards the sunset; Mina’s uneasiness calls my

attention to it. I am sure that there is something on her mind which the

time of exact sunset will reveal. These occasions are becoming harrowing

times for us all, for each sunrise and sunset opens up some new

danger--some new pain, which, however, may in God’s will be means to a

good end. I write all these things in the diary since my darling must

not hear them now; but if it may be that she can see them again, they

shall be ready.

She is calling to me.

CHAPTER XXV

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY

_11 October, Evening._--Jonathan Harker has asked me to note this, as he

says he is hardly equal to the task, and he wants an exact record kept.

I think that none of us were surprised when we were asked to see Mrs.

Harker a little before the time of sunset. We have of late come to

understand that sunrise and sunset are to her times of peculiar freedom;

when her old self can be manifest without any controlling force subduing

or restraining her, or inciting her to action. This mood or condition

begins some half hour or more before actual sunrise or sunset, and lasts

till either the sun is high, or whilst the clouds are still aglow with

the rays streaming above the horizon. At first there is a sort of

negative condition, as if some tie were loosened, and then the absolute

freedom quickly follows; when, however, the freedom ceases the

change-back or relapse comes quickly, preceded only by a spell of

warning silence.

To-night, when we met, she was somewhat constrained, and bore all the

signs of an internal struggle. I put it down myself to her making a

violent effort at the earliest instant she could do so. A very few

minutes, however, gave her complete control of herself; then, motioning

her husband to sit beside her on the sofa where she was half reclining,

she made the rest of us bring chairs up close. Taking her husband’s hand

in hers began:--

“We are all here together in freedom, for perhaps the last time! I know,

dear; I know that you will always be with me to the end.” This was to

her husband whose hand had, as we could see, tightened upon hers. “In