Road had sent up his son with a barrow-load of green apples and ginger

beer.

Going to the edge of the pit, I found it occupied by a group of about

half a dozen men—Henderson, Ogilvy, and a tall, fair-haired man that I

afterwards learned was Stent, the Astronomer Royal, with several

workmen wielding spades and pickaxes. Stent was giving directions in a

clear, high-pitched voice. He was standing on the cylinder, which was

now evidently much cooler; his face was crimson and streaming with

perspiration, and something seemed to have irritated him.

A large portion of the cylinder had been uncovered, though its lower

end was still embedded. As soon as Ogilvy saw me among the staring

crowd on the edge of the pit he called to me to come down, and asked me

if I would mind going over to see Lord Hilton, the lord of the manor.

The growing crowd, he said, was becoming a serious impediment to their

excavations, especially the boys. They wanted a light railing put up,

and help to keep the people back. He told me that a faint stirring was

occasionally still audible within the case, but that the workmen had

failed to unscrew the top, as it afforded no grip to them. The case

appeared to be enormously thick, and it was possible that the faint

sounds we heard represented a noisy tumult in the interior.

I was very glad to do as he asked, and so become one of the privileged

spectators within the contemplated enclosure. I failed to find Lord

Hilton at his house, but I was told he was expected from London by the

six o’clock train from Waterloo; and as it was then about a quarter

past five, I went home, had some tea, and walked up to the station to

waylay him.

IV.

THE CYLINDER OPENS.

When I returned to the common the sun was setting. Scattered groups

were hurrying from the direction of Woking, and one or two persons were

returning. The crowd about the pit had increased, and stood out black

against the lemon yellow of the sky—a couple of hundred people,

perhaps. There were raised voices, and some sort of struggle appeared

to be going on about the pit. Strange imaginings passed through my

mind. As I drew nearer I heard Stent’s voice:

“Keep back! Keep back!”

A boy came running towards me.

“It’s a-movin’,” he said to me as he passed; “a-screwin’ and a-screwin’

out. I don’t like it. I’m a-goin’ ’ome, I am.”

I went on to the crowd. There were really, I should think, two or three

hundred people elbowing and jostling one another, the one or two ladies

there being by no means the least active.

“He’s fallen in the pit!” cried some one.

“Keep back!” said several.

The crowd swayed a little, and I elbowed my way through. Every one

seemed greatly excited. I heard a peculiar humming sound from the pit.

“I say!” said Ogilvy; “help keep these idiots back. We don’t know

what’s in the confounded thing, you know!”

I saw a young man, a shop assistant in Woking I believe he was,

standing on the cylinder and trying to scramble out of the hole again.

The crowd had pushed him in.

The end of the cylinder was being screwed out from within. Nearly two

feet of shining screw projected. Somebody blundered against me, and I

narrowly missed being pitched onto the top of the screw. I turned, and

as I did so the screw must have come out, for the lid of the cylinder

fell upon the gravel with a ringing concussion. I stuck my elbow into

the person behind me, and turned my head towards the Thing again. For a

moment that circular cavity seemed perfectly black. I had the sunset in

my eyes.

I think everyone expected to see a man emerge—possibly something a

little unlike us terrestrial men, but in all essentials a man. I know I

did. But, looking, I presently saw something stirring within the

shadow: greyish billowy movements, one above another, and then two

luminous disks—like eyes. Then something resembling a little grey

snake, about the thickness of a walking stick, coiled up out of the

writhing middle, and wriggled in the air towards me—and then another.

A sudden chill came over me. There was a loud shriek from a woman

behind. I half turned, keeping my eyes fixed upon the cylinder still,

from which other tentacles were now projecting, and began pushing my