coat his strong double-chin emerged; under the bushy eyebrows, his

piercing, dark eyes looked out fresh and alert; his normally unkempt

white hair was combed down painfully close to his scalp. He took his

cap, with its gold monogram from, probably, some bank, and threw it in

an arc right across the room onto the sofa, put his hands in his

trouser pockets, pushing back the bottom of his long uniform coat, and,

with look of determination, walked towards Gregor. He probably did not

even know himself what he had in mind, but nonetheless lifted his feet

unusually high. Gregor was amazed at the enormous size of the soles of

his boots, but wasted no time with that—he knew full well, right from

the first day of his new life, that his father thought it necessary to

always be extremely strict with him. And so he ran up to his father,

stopped when his father stopped, scurried forwards again when he moved,

even slightly. In this way they went round the room several times

without anything decisive happening, without even giving the impression

of a chase as everything went so slowly. Gregor remained all this time

on the floor, largely because he feared his father might see it as

especially provoking if he fled onto the wall or ceiling. Whatever he

did, Gregor had to admit that he certainly would not be able to keep up

this running about for long, as for each step his father took he had to

carry out countless movements. He became noticeably short of breath,

even in his earlier life his lungs had not been very reliable. Now, as

he lurched about in his efforts to muster all the strength he could for

running he could hardly keep his eyes open; his thoughts became too

slow for him to think of any other way of saving himself than running;

he almost forgot that the walls were there for him to use although,

here, they were concealed behind carefully carved furniture full of

notches and protrusions—then, right beside him, lightly tossed,

something flew down and rolled in front of him. It was an apple; then

another one immediately flew at him; Gregor froze in shock; there was

no longer any point in running as his father had decided to bombard

him. He had filled his pockets with fruit from the bowl on the

sideboard and now, without even taking the time for careful aim, threw

one apple after another. These little, red apples rolled about on the

floor, knocking into each other as if they had electric motors. An

apple thrown without much force glanced against Gregor’s back and slid

off without doing any harm. Another one however, immediately following

it, hit squarely and lodged in his back; Gregor wanted to drag himself

away, as if he could remove the surprising, the incredible pain by

changing his position; but he felt as if nailed to the spot and spread

himself out, all his senses in confusion. The last thing he saw was the

door of his room being pulled open, his sister was screaming, his

mother ran out in front of her in her blouse (as his sister had taken

off some of her clothes after she had fainted to make it easier for her

to breathe), she ran to his father, her skirts unfastened and sliding

one after another to the ground, stumbling over the skirts she pushed

herself to his father, her arms around him, uniting herself with him

totally—now Gregor lost his ability to see anything—her hands behind

his father’s head begging him to spare Gregor’s life.

III

No-one dared to remove the apple lodged in Gregor’s flesh, so it

remained there as a visible reminder of his injury. He had suffered it

there for more than a month, and his condition seemed serious enough to

remind even his father that Gregor, despite his current sad and

revolting form, was a family member who could not be treated as an

enemy. On the contrary, as a family there was a duty to swallow any

revulsion for him and to be patient, just to be patient.

Because of his injuries, Gregor had lost much of his mobility—probably

permanently. He had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid

and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room—crawling

over the ceiling was out of the question—but this deterioration in his

condition was fully (in his opinion) made up for by the door to the

living room being left open every evening. He got into the habit of

closely watching it for one or two hours before it was opened and then,

lying in the darkness of his room where he could not be seen from the

living room, he could watch the family in the light of the dinner table

and listen to their conversation—with everyone’s permission, in a way,

and thus quite differently from before.

They no longer held the lively conversations of earlier times, of

course, the ones that Gregor always thought about with longing when he

was tired and getting into the damp bed in some small hotel room. All

of them were usually very quiet nowadays. Soon after dinner, his father

would go to sleep in his chair; his mother and sister would urge each

other to be quiet; his mother, bent deeply under the lamp, would sew

fancy underwear for a fashion shop; his sister, who had taken a sales

job, learned shorthand and French in the evenings so that she might be

able to get a better position later on. Sometimes his father would wake