“We’re working well,” he said. He put down his spade. “Let us knock off

a bit” he said. “I think it’s time we reconnoitred from the roof of the

house.”

I was for going on, and after a little hesitation he resumed his spade;

and then suddenly I was struck by a thought. I stopped, and so did he

at once.

“Why were you walking about the common,” I said, “instead of being

here?”

“Taking the air,” he said. “I was coming back. It’s safer by night.”

“But the work?”

“Oh, one can’t always work,” he said, and in a flash I saw the man

plain. He hesitated, holding his spade. “We ought to reconnoitre now,”

he said, “because if any come near they may hear the spades and drop

upon us unawares.”

I was no longer disposed to object. We went together to the roof and

stood on a ladder peeping out of the roof door. No Martians were to be

seen, and we ventured out on the tiles, and slipped down under shelter

of the parapet.

From this position a shrubbery hid the greater portion of Putney, but

we could see the river below, a bubbly mass of red weed, and the low

parts of Lambeth flooded and red. The red creeper swarmed up the trees

about the old palace, and their branches stretched gaunt and dead, and

set with shrivelled leaves, from amid its clusters. It was strange how

entirely dependent both these things were upon flowing water for their

propagation. About us neither had gained a footing; laburnums, pink

mays, snowballs, and trees of arbor-vitae, rose out of laurels and

hydrangeas, green and brilliant into the sunlight. Beyond Kensington

dense smoke was rising, and that and a blue haze hid the northward

hills.

The artilleryman began to tell me of the sort of people who still

remained in London.

“One night last week,” he said, “some fools got the electric light in

order, and there was all Regent Street and the Circus ablaze, crowded

with painted and ragged drunkards, men and women, dancing and shouting

till dawn. A man who was there told me. And as the day came they became

aware of a fighting-machine standing near by the Langham and looking

down at them. Heaven knows how long he had been there. It must have

given some of them a nasty turn. He came down the road towards them,

and picked up nearly a hundred too drunk or frightened to run away.”

Grotesque gleam of a time no history will ever fully describe!

From that, in answer to my questions, he came round to his grandiose

plans again. He grew enthusiastic. He talked so eloquently of the

possibility of capturing a fighting-machine that I more than half

believed in him again. But now that I was beginning to understand

something of his quality, I could divine the stress he laid on doing

nothing precipitately. And I noted that now there was no question that

he personally was to capture and fight the great machine.

After a time we went down to the cellar. Neither of us seemed disposed

to resume digging, and when he suggested a meal, I was nothing loath.

He became suddenly very generous, and when we had eaten he went away

and returned with some excellent cigars. We lit these, and his optimism

glowed. He was inclined to regard my coming as a great occasion.

“There’s some champagne in the cellar,” he said.

“We can dig better on this Thames-side burgundy,” said I.

“No,” said he; “I am host today. Champagne! Great God! We’ve a heavy

enough task before us! Let us take a rest and gather strength while we

may. Look at these blistered hands!”

And pursuant to this idea of a holiday, he insisted upon playing cards

after we had eaten. He taught me euchre, and after dividing London

between us, I taking the northern side and he the southern, we played

for parish points. Grotesque and foolish as this will seem to the sober

reader, it is absolutely true, and what is more remarkable, I found the

card game and several others we played extremely interesting.

Strange mind of man! that, with our species upon the edge of

extermination or appalling degradation, with no clear prospect before