what was practicable to be done in this new and startling aspect of

affairs, the sound of military music was heard approaching along a

contiguous street. It denoted the advance of the procession of

magistrates and citizens, on its way towards the meeting-house; where,

in compliance with a custom thus early established, and ever since

observed, the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale was to deliver an Election

Sermon.

[Illustration: New England Worthies]

Soon the head of the procession showed itself, with a slow and stately

march, turning a corner, and making its way across the market-place.

First came the music. It comprised a variety of instruments, perhaps

imperfectly adapted to one another, and played with no great skill;

but yet attaining the great object for which the harmony of drum and

clarion addresses itself to the multitude,—that of imparting a higher

and more heroic air to the scene of life that passes before the eye.

Little Pearl at first clapped her hands, but then lost, for an

instant, the restless agitation that had kept her in a continual

effervescence throughout the morning; she gazed silently, and seemed

to be borne upward, like a floating sea-bird, on the long heaves and

swells of sound. But she was brought back to her former mood by the

shimmer of the sunshine on the weapons and bright armor of the

military company, which followed after the music, and formed the

honorary escort of the procession. This body of soldiery—which still

sustains a corporate existence, and marches down from past ages with

an ancient and honorable fame—was composed of no mercenary materials.

Its ranks were filled with gentlemen, who felt the stirrings of

martial impulse, and sought to establish a kind of College of Arms,

where, as in an association of Knights Templars, they might learn the

science, and, so far as peaceful exercise would teach them, the

practices of war. The high estimation then placed upon the military

character might be seen in the lofty port of each individual member

of the company. Some of them, indeed, by their services in the Low

Countries and on other fields of European warfare, had fairly won

their title to assume the name and pomp of soldiership. The entire

array, moreover, clad in burnished steel, and with plumage nodding

over their bright morions, had a brilliancy of effect which no modern

display can aspire to equal.

And yet the men of civil eminence, who came immediately behind the

military escort, were better worth a thoughtful observer’s eye. Even

in outward demeanor, they showed a stamp of majesty that made the

warrior’s haughty stride look vulgar, if not absurd. It was an age

when what we call talent had far less consideration than now, but the

massive materials which produce stability and dignity of character a

great deal more. The people possessed, by hereditary right, the

quality of reverence; which, in their descendants, if it survive at

all, exists in smaller proportion, and with a vastly diminished force,

in the selection and estimate of public men. The change may be for

good or ill, and is partly, perhaps, for both. In that old day, the

English settler on these rude shores—having left king, nobles, and

all degrees of awful rank behind, while still the faculty and

necessity of reverence were strong in him—bestowed it on the white

hair and venerable brow of age; on long-tried integrity; on solid

wisdom and sad-colored experience; on endowments of that grave and

weighty order which gives the idea of permanence, and comes under the

general definition of respectability. These primitive statesmen,

therefore,—Bradstreet, Endicott, Dudley, Bellingham, and their

compeers,—who were elevated to power by the early choice of the

people, seem to have been not often brilliant, but distinguished by a

ponderous sobriety, rather than activity of intellect. They had

fortitude and self-reliance, and, in time of difficulty or peril,

stood up for the welfare of the state like a line of cliffs against a

tempestuous tide. The traits of character here indicated were well

represented in the square cast of countenance and large physical

development of the new colonial magistrates. So far as a demeanor of

natural authority was concerned, the mother country need not have been

ashamed to see these foremost men of an actual democracy adopted into

the House of Peers, or made the Privy Council of the sovereign.

Next in order to the magistrates came the young and eminently

distinguished divine, from whose lips the religious discourse of the

anniversary was expected. His was the profession, at that era, in

which intellectual ability displayed itself far more than in political

life; for—leaving a higher motive out of the question—it offered

inducements powerful enough, in the almost worshipping respect of the

community, to win the most aspiring ambition into its service. Even

political power—as in the case of Increase Mather—was within the

grasp of a successful priest.

It was the observation of those who beheld him now, that never, since

Mr. Dimmesdale first set his foot on the New England shore, had he

exhibited such energy as was seen in the gait and air with which he

kept his pace in the procession. There was no feebleness of step, as