“I have been thinking, and have made up my mind as to what is best. If I

did simply follow my inclining I would do now, at this moment, what is

to be done; but there are other things to follow, and things that are

thousand times more difficult in that them we do not know. This is

simple. She have yet no life taken, though that is of time; and to act

now would be to take danger from her for ever. But then we may have to

want Arthur, and how shall we tell him of this? If you, who saw the

wounds on Lucy’s throat, and saw the wounds so similar on the child’s at

the hospital; if you, who saw the coffin empty last night and full

to-day with a woman who have not change only to be more rose and more

beautiful in a whole week, after she die--if you know of this and know

of the white figure last night that brought the child to the churchyard,

and yet of your own senses you did not believe, how, then, can I expect

Arthur, who know none of those things, to believe? He doubted me when I

took him from her kiss when she was dying. I know he has forgiven me

because in some mistaken idea I have done things that prevent him say

good-bye as he ought; and he may think that in some more mistaken idea

this woman was buried alive; and that in most mistake of all we have

killed her. He will then argue back that it is we, mistaken ones, that

have killed her by our ideas; and so he will be much unhappy always. Yet

he never can be sure; and that is the worst of all. And he will

sometimes think that she he loved was buried alive, and that will paint

his dreams with horrors of what she must have suffered; and again, he

will think that we may be right, and that his so beloved was, after all,

an Un-Dead. No! I told him once, and since then I learn much. Now, since

I know it is all true, a hundred thousand times more do I know that he

must pass through the bitter waters to reach the sweet. He, poor fellow,

must have one hour that will make the very face of heaven grow black to

him; then we can act for good all round and send him peace. My mind is

made up. Let us go. You return home for to-night to your asylum, and see

that all be well. As for me, I shall spend the night here in this

churchyard in my own way. To-morrow night you will come to me to the

Berkeley Hotel at ten of the clock. I shall send for Arthur to come too,

and also that so fine young man of America that gave his blood. Later we

shall all have work to do. I come with you so far as Piccadilly and

there dine, for I must be back here before the sun set.”

So we locked the tomb and came away, and got over the wall of the

churchyard, which was not much of a task, and drove back to Piccadilly.

_Note left by Van Helsing in his portmanteau, Berkeley Hotel directed to

John Seward, M. D._

(Not delivered.)

“_27 September._

“Friend John,--

“I write this in case anything should happen. I go alone to watch in

that churchyard. It pleases me that the Un-Dead, Miss Lucy, shall not

leave to-night, that so on the morrow night she may be more eager.

Therefore I shall fix some things she like not--garlic and a

crucifix--and so seal up the door of the tomb. She is young as Un-Dead,

and will heed. Moreover, these are only to prevent her coming out; they

may not prevail on her wanting to get in; for then the Un-Dead is

desperate, and must find the line of least resistance, whatsoever it may

be. I shall be at hand all the night from sunset till after the sunrise,

and if there be aught that may be learned I shall learn it. For Miss

Lucy or from her, I have no fear; but that other to whom is there that

she is Un-Dead, he have now the power to seek her tomb and find shelter.

He is cunning, as I know from Mr. Jonathan and from the way that all

along he have fooled us when he played with us for Miss Lucy’s life, and

we lost; and in many ways the Un-Dead are strong. He have always the

strength in his hand of twenty men; even we four who gave our strength

to Miss Lucy it also is all to him. Besides, he can summon his wolf and

I know not what. So if it be that he come thither on this night he shall

find me; but none other shall--until it be too late. But it may be that

he will not attempt the place. There is no reason why he should; his

hunting ground is more full of game than the churchyard where the

Un-Dead woman sleep, and the one old man watch.

“Therefore I write this in case.... Take the papers that are with this,