kiss me with those red lips. It is not good to note this down, lest some

day it should meet Mina’s eyes and cause her pain; but it is the truth.

They whispered together, and then they all three laughed--such a

silvery, musical laugh, but as hard as though the sound never could have

come through the softness of human lips. It was like the intolerable,

tingling sweetness of water-glasses when played on by a cunning hand.

The fair girl shook her head coquettishly, and the other two urged her

on. One said:--

“Go on! You are first, and we shall follow; yours is the right to

begin.” The other added:--

“He is young and strong; there are kisses for us all.” I lay quiet,

looking out under my eyelashes in an agony of delightful anticipation.

The fair girl advanced and bent over me till I could feel the movement

of her breath upon me. Sweet it was in one sense, honey-sweet, and sent

the same tingling through the nerves as her voice, but with a bitter

underlying the sweet, a bitter offensiveness, as one smells in blood.

I was afraid to raise my eyelids, but looked out and saw perfectly under

the lashes. The girl went on her knees, and bent over me, simply

gloating. There was a deliberate voluptuousness which was both thrilling

and repulsive, and as she arched her neck she actually licked her lips

like an animal, till I could see in the moonlight the moisture shining

on the scarlet lips and on the red tongue as it lapped the white sharp

teeth. Lower and lower went her head as the lips went below the range of

my mouth and chin and seemed about to fasten on my throat. Then she

paused, and I could hear the churning sound of her tongue as it licked

her teeth and lips, and could feel the hot breath on my neck. Then the

skin of my throat began to tingle as one’s flesh does when the hand that

is to tickle it approaches nearer--nearer. I could feel the soft,

shivering touch of the lips on the super-sensitive skin of my throat,

and the hard dents of two sharp teeth, just touching and pausing there.

I closed my eyes in a languorous ecstasy and waited--waited with beating

heart.

But at that instant, another sensation swept through me as quick as

lightning. I was conscious of the presence of the Count, and of his

being as if lapped in a storm of fury. As my eyes opened involuntarily I

saw his strong hand grasp the slender neck of the fair woman and with

giant’s power draw it back, the blue eyes transformed with fury, the

white teeth champing with rage, and the fair cheeks blazing red with

passion. But the Count! Never did I imagine such wrath and fury, even to

the demons of the pit. His eyes were positively blazing. The red light

in them was lurid, as if the flames of hell-fire blazed behind them. His

face was deathly pale, and the lines of it were hard like drawn wires;

the thick eyebrows that met over the nose now seemed like a heaving bar

of white-hot metal. With a fierce sweep of his arm, he hurled the woman

from him, and then motioned to the others, as though he were beating

them back; it was the same imperious gesture that I had seen used to the

wolves. In a voice which, though low and almost in a whisper seemed to

cut through the air and then ring round the room he said:--

“How dare you touch him, any of you? How dare you cast eyes on him when

I had forbidden it? Back, I tell you all! This man belongs to me! Beware

how you meddle with him, or you’ll have to deal with me.” The fair girl,

with a laugh of ribald coquetry, turned to answer him:--

“You yourself never loved; you never love!” On this the other women

joined, and such a mirthless, hard, soulless laughter rang through the

room that it almost made me faint to hear; it seemed like the pleasure

of fiends. Then the Count turned, after looking at my face attentively,

and said in a soft whisper:--

“Yes, I too can love; you yourselves can tell it from the past. Is it

not so? Well, now I promise you that when I am done with him you shall

kiss him at your will. Now go! go! I must awaken him, for there is work

to be done.”

“Are we to have nothing to-night?” said one of them, with a low laugh,

as she pointed to the bag which he had thrown upon the floor, and which

moved as though there were some living thing within it. For answer he

nodded his head. One of the women jumped forward and opened it. If my

ears did not deceive me there was a gasp and a low wail, as of a