accepting, even to the happiest among them? As concerned her own

individual existence, she had long ago decided in the negative, and

dismissed the point as settled. A tendency to speculation, though it

may keep woman quiet, as it does man, yet makes her sad. She discerns,

it may be, such a hopeless task before her. As a first step, the whole

system of society is to be torn down, and built up anew. Then, the

very nature of the opposite sex, or its long hereditary habit, which

has become like nature, is to be essentially modified, before woman

can be allowed to assume what seems a fair and suitable position.

Finally, all other difficulties being obviated, woman cannot take

advantage of these preliminary reforms, until she herself shall have

undergone a still mightier change; in which, perhaps, the ethereal

essence, wherein she has her truest life, will be found to have

evaporated. A woman never overcomes these problems by any exercise of

thought. They are not to be solved, or only in one way. If her heart

chance to come uppermost, they vanish. Thus, Hester Prynne, whose

heart had lost its regular and healthy throb, wandered without a clew

in the dark labyrinth of mind; now turned aside by an insurmountable

precipice; now starting back from a deep chasm. There was wild and

ghastly scenery all around her, and a home and comfort nowhere. At

times, a fearful doubt strove to possess her soul, whether it were not

better to send Pearl at once to heaven, and go herself to such

futurity as Eternal Justice should provide.

The scarlet letter had not done its office.

Now, however, her interview with the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale, on the

night of his vigil, had given her a new theme of reflection, and held

up to her an object that appeared worthy of any exertion and sacrifice

for its attainment. She had witnessed the intense misery beneath

which the minister struggled, or, to speak more accurately, had ceased

to struggle. She saw that he stood on the verge of lunacy, if he had

not already stepped across it. It was impossible to doubt, that,

whatever painful efficacy there might be in the secret sting of

remorse, a deadlier venom had been infused into it by the hand that

proffered relief. A secret enemy had been continually by his side,

under the semblance of a friend and helper, and had availed himself of

the opportunities thus afforded for tampering with the delicate

springs of Mr. Dimmesdale’s nature. Hester could not but ask herself,

whether there had not originally been a defect of truth, courage, and

loyalty, on her own part, in allowing the minister to be thrown into a

position where so much evil was to be foreboded, and nothing

auspicious to be hoped. Her only justification lay in the fact, that

she had been able to discern no method of rescuing him from a blacker

ruin than had overwhelmed herself, except by acquiescing in Roger

Chillingworth’s scheme of disguise. Under that impulse, she had made

her choice, and had chosen, as it now appeared, the more wretched

alternative of the two. She determined to redeem her error, so far as

it might yet be possible. Strengthened by years of hard and solemn

trial, she felt herself no longer so inadequate to cope with Roger

Chillingworth as on that night, abased by sin, and half maddened by

the ignominy that was still new, when they had talked together in the

prison-chamber. She had climbed her way, since then, to a higher

point. The old man, on the other hand, had brought himself nearer to

her level, or perhaps below it, by the revenge which he had stooped

for.

In fine, Hester Prynne resolved to meet her former husband, and do

what might be in her power for the rescue of the victim on whom he

had so evidently set his gripe. The occasion was not long to seek. One

afternoon, walking with Pearl in a retired part of the peninsula, she

beheld the old physician, with a basket on one arm, and a staff in the

other hand, stooping along the ground, in quest of roots and herbs to

concoct his medicines withal.

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 XIV.

 HESTER AND THE PHYSICIAN.

Hester bade little Pearl run down to the margin of the water, and play

with the shells and tangled sea-weed, until she should have talked

awhile with yonder gatherer of herbs. So the child flew away like a

bird, and, making bare her small white feet, went pattering along the

moist margin of the sea. Here and there she came to a full stop, and

peeped curiously into a pool, left by the retiring tide as a mirror

for Pearl to see her face in. Forth peeped at her, out of the pool,