"Oh. we'll look, all right," assented Tom, "but I doubt if we find

anything."

And he was right. They walked in and about the little grove, flashing

the light at intervals, but beyond marks of auto wheels in the dust of

the road, which was near the clump of maples, there was nothing to

indicate what had happened.

"Though there was some sort of fracas," declared Tom. "Look where the

dust is trampled down. There were several men here, perhaps skylarking,

or perhaps it was a fight."

"Some one must have been hurt, or they wouldn't have cried for help,"

said Mr. Damon.

"Well, that's so. But perhaps it was some one not used to riding in

autos, and he may have imagined the accident was worse than it was, and

called for help involuntarily. There is no evidence of any serious

accident having happened--no spots of blood, at any rate," and Tom

laughed at his own grimness. "It was a new car, too, or at least one

with new tires on."

"How do you know?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Tell by the plain marks of the rubber tread in the dust," was the

answer. "Look," and Tom pointed to the wheel marks in the focus of his

electric lamp. "It's a new tire, too, with square protuberances on the

tread instead of the usual diamond or round ones. A new kind of tire,

all right."

He and Mr. Damon remained for a few minutes looking about the place

whence had come the calls for help, and then the eccentric man remarked:

"Well, as long as we can't do anything here, Tom, we might as well

travel on; what do you say?"

"I agree with you. There isn't any use in staying. We'll get the Air

Scout fixed up and travel back home. But this was something queer,"

mused Tom. "I hope it doesn't turn out later that a crime has been

committed, and we didn't show enough gumption to prevent it."

"We couldn't prevent it. We heard the cries as soon as we landed."

"Yes, but if we had rushed over at once we might have caught the

fellows. But I guess it was only a slight accident, and some one was

more frightened than hurt. We'll have to let it go at that."

But the more he thought about it the more Tom Swift thought there was

something queer in that weird cry for help on the lonely meadow in the

darkness of the night.

CHAPTER XIV

THE TELEPHONE CALL

The defect in the motor which had caused Tom Swift to shut off the

power and drift down to earth was soon remedied, once the young

inventor began an examination of the craft. One of the oil feeds had

become choked and this automatically cut down the gasoline supply,

causing one or more cylinders to miss. It was a safety device Tom had

installed to prevent the motor running dry, and so being damaged.

Once the clogged oil feed was cleared the motor ran as before, and just

as silently, though, as Tom had said, he was not entirely satisfied

with the quietness, but intended to do further work toward perfecting

it.

"I'll start the propellers now, Mr. Damon," said Tom, when the trouble

had been remedied. "You know how to throw the switch, don't you?"

"I guess so," was the answer. Mr. Damon and Tom had traveled so often

together in gasoline craft that the young inventor had taught his

friend certain fundamentals about them, and in an emergency the

eccentric man could help start an aeroplane. This he now did, taking

charge of the controls which could be operated from his seat as well as

from Tom's. Tom whirled the propellers, and soon the motor was in

motion.

Mr. Damon, once the big wooden blades were revolving, slowed down the

apparatus until Tom could jump aboard, after which the latter took

charge and soon speeded up the machine, sending it aloft.

As the green meadow, dimly seen in the light of the moon, seemed to

drop away below them, and the clump of trees vanished from sight, both

Tom and Mr. Damon wondered who it was that had called for help, and if

the matter were at all serious. They were inclined to think it was not,

but Tom could not rid himself of a faint suspicion that there might

have been trouble.

However, thoughts of his new silent Air Scout soon drove everything

else from his mind, and as he guided the comparatively silent machine

on its quiet way toward his own home he was thinking how he could best

improve the muffler.

"Well, here we are again, safe and sound," remarked Tom, as he brought

the craft to a stop in front of the hangar, and Jackson and his