is always so. Those who do not complain are never pitied.”

Her daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that any

attempt to reason with or soothe her would only increase the irritation.

She talked on, therefore, without interruption from any of them till

they were joined by Mr. Collins, who entered with an air more stately

than usual, and on perceiving whom, she said to the girls,--

“Now, I do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and

let Mr. Collins and me have a little conversation together.”

Elizabeth passed quietly out of the room, Jane and Kitty followed, but

Lydia stood her ground, determined to hear all she could; and Charlotte,

detained first by the civility of Mr. Collins, whose inquiries after

herself and all her family were very minute, and then by a little

curiosity, satisfied herself with walking to the window and pretending

not to hear. In a doleful voice Mrs. Bennet thus began the projected

conversation:--

“Oh, Mr. Collins!”

“My dear madam,” replied he, “let us be for ever silent on this point.

Far be it from me,” he presently continued, in a voice that marked his

displeasure, “to resent the behaviour of your daughter. Resignation to

inevitable evils is the duty of us all: the peculiar duty of a young man

who has been so fortunate as I have been, in early preferment; and, I

trust, I am resigned. Perhaps not the less so from feeling a doubt of my

positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured me with her hand; for I

have often observed, that resignation is never so perfect as when the

blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of its value in our estimation.

You will not, I hope, consider me as showing any disrespect to your

family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to your

daughter’s favour, without having paid yourself and Mr. Bennet the

compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my behalf.

My conduct may, I fear, be objectionable in having accepted my

dismission from your daughter’s lips instead of your own; but we are all

liable to error. I have certainly meant well through the whole affair.

My object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself, with due

consideration for the advantage of all your family; and if my _manner_

has been at all reprehensible, I here beg leave to apologize.”

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XXI.

[Illustration]

The discussion of Mr. Collins’s offer was now nearly at an end, and

Elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily

attending it, and occasionally from some peevish allusion of her mother.

As for the gentleman himself, _his_ feelings were chiefly expressed, not

by embarrassment or dejection, or by trying to avoid her, but by

stiffness of manner and resentful silence. He scarcely ever spoke to

her; and the assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of

himself were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas, whose

civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all, and

especially to her friend.

The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. Bennet’s ill humour or ill

health. Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry pride. Elizabeth

had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit, but his plan did

not appear in the least affected by it. He was always to have gone on

Saturday, and to Saturday he still meant to stay.

After breakfast, the girls walked to Meryton, to inquire if Mr. Wickham

were returned, and to lament over his absence from the Netherfield ball.

He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their

aunt’s, where his regret and vexation and the concern of everybody were

well talked over. To Elizabeth, however, he voluntarily acknowledged

that the necessity of his absence _had_ been self-imposed.

“I found,” said he, “as the time drew near, that I had better not meet

Mr. Darcy;--that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so

many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes

might arise unpleasant to more than myself.”

She highly approved his forbearance; and they had leisure for a full

discussion of it, and for all the commendations which they civilly

bestowed on each other, as Wickham and another officer walked back with

them to Longbourn, and during the walk he particularly attended to her.

His accompanying them was a double advantage: she felt all the

compliment it offered to herself; and it was most acceptable as an

occasion of introducing him to her father and mother.

[Illustration: “Walked back with them”

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet; it came

from Netherfield, and was opened immediately. The envelope contained a

sheet of elegant, little, hot-pressed paper, well covered with a lady’s

fair, flowing hand; and Elizabeth saw her sister’s countenance change as

she read it, and saw her dwelling intently on some particular passages.

Jane recollected herself soon; and putting the letter away, tried to

join, with her usual cheerfulness, in the general conversation: but

Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention

even from Wickham; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave,

than a glance from Jane invited her to follow her upstairs. When they

had gained their own room, Jane, taking out her letter, said, “This is

from Caroline Bingley: what it contains has surprised me a good deal.

The whole party have left Netherfield by this time, and are on their way

to town; and without any intention of coming back again. You shall hear