ignotum pro magnifico_; and so with heavy hearts we start to find what

ships leave for the Black Sea last night. He was in sailing ship, since

Madam Mina tell of sails being set. These not so important as to go in

your list of the shipping in the _Times_, and so we go, by suggestion of

Lord Godalming, to your Lloyd’s, where are note of all ships that sail,

however so small. There we find that only one Black-Sea-bound ship go

out with the tide. She is the _Czarina Catherine_, and she sail from

Doolittle’s Wharf for Varna, and thence on to other parts and up the

Danube. ‘Soh!’ said I, ‘this is the ship whereon is the Count.’ So off

we go to Doolittle’s Wharf, and there we find a man in an office of wood

so small that the man look bigger than the office. From him we inquire

of the goings of the _Czarina Catherine_. He swear much, and he red face

and loud of voice, but he good fellow all the same; and when Quincey

give him something from his pocket which crackle as he roll it up, and

put it in a so small bag which he have hid deep in his clothing, he

still better fellow and humble servant to us. He come with us, and ask

many men who are rough and hot; these be better fellows too when they

have been no more thirsty. They say much of blood and bloom, and of

others which I comprehend not, though I guess what they mean; but

nevertheless they tell us all things which we want to know.

“They make known to us among them, how last afternoon at about five

o’clock comes a man so hurry. A tall man, thin and pale, with high nose

and teeth so white, and eyes that seem to be burning. That he be all in

black, except that he have a hat of straw which suit not him or the

time. That he scatter his money in making quick inquiry as to what ship

sails for the Black Sea and for where. Some took him to the office and

then to the ship, where he will not go aboard but halt at shore end of

gang-plank, and ask that the captain come to him. The captain come, when

told that he will be pay well; and though he swear much at the first he

agree to term. Then the thin man go and some one tell him where horse

and cart can be hired. He go there and soon he come again, himself

driving cart on which a great box; this he himself lift down, though it

take several to put it on truck for the ship. He give much talk to

captain as to how and where his box is to be place; but the captain like

it not and swear at him in many tongues, and tell him that if he like he

can come and see where it shall be. But he say ‘no’; that he come not

yet, for that he have much to do. Whereupon the captain tell him that he

had better be quick--with blood--for that his ship will leave the

place--of blood--before the turn of the tide--with blood. Then the thin

man smile and say that of course he must go when he think fit; but he

will be surprise if he go quite so soon. The captain swear again,

polyglot, and the thin man make him bow, and thank him, and say that he

will so far intrude on his kindness as to come aboard before the

sailing. Final the captain, more red than ever, and in more tongues tell

him that he doesn’t want no Frenchmen--with bloom upon them and also

with blood--in his ship--with blood on her also. And so, after asking

where there might be close at hand a ship where he might purchase ship

forms, he departed.

“No one knew where he went ‘or bloomin’ well cared,’ as they said, for

they had something else to think of--well with blood again; for it soon

became apparent to all that the _Czarina Catherine_ would not sail as

was expected. A thin mist began to creep up from the river, and it grew,

and grew; till soon a dense fog enveloped the ship and all around her.

The captain swore polyglot--very polyglot--polyglot with bloom and

blood; but he could do nothing. The water rose and rose; and he began to

fear that he would lose the tide altogether. He was in no friendly mood,

when just at full tide, the thin man came up the gang-plank again and

asked to see where his box had been stowed. Then the captain replied

that he wished that he and his box--old and with much bloom and

blood--were in hell. But the thin man did not be offend, and went down

with the mate and saw where it was place, and came up and stood awhile

on deck in fog. He must have come off by himself, for none notice him.

Indeed they thought not of him; for soon the fog begin to melt away, and

all was clear again. My friends of the thirst and the language that was

of bloom and blood laughed, as they told how the captain’s swears

exceeded even his usual polyglot, and was more than ever full of

picturesque, when on questioning other mariners who were on movement up

and down on the river that hour, he found that few of them had seen any