ironclads rose one after the other out of the sea, beneath clouds of

black smoke. But my brother’s attention speedily reverted to the

distant firing in the south. He fancied he saw a column of smoke rising

out of the distant grey haze.

The little steamer was already flapping her way eastward of the big

crescent of shipping, and the low Essex coast was growing blue and

hazy, when a Martian appeared, small and faint in the remote distance,

advancing along the muddy coast from the direction of Foulness. At that

the captain on the bridge swore at the top of his voice with fear and

anger at his own delay, and the paddles seemed infected with his

terror. Every soul aboard stood at the bulwarks or on the seats of the

steamer and stared at that distant shape, higher than the trees or

church towers inland, and advancing with a leisurely parody of a human

stride.

It was the first Martian my brother had seen, and he stood, more amazed

than terrified, watching this Titan advancing deliberately towards the

shipping, wading farther and farther into the water as the coast fell

away. Then, far away beyond the Crouch, came another, striding over

some stunted trees, and then yet another, still farther off, wading

deeply through a shiny mudflat that seemed to hang halfway up between

sea and sky. They were all stalking seaward, as if to intercept the

escape of the multitudinous vessels that were crowded between Foulness

and the Naze. In spite of the throbbing exertions of the engines of the

little paddle-boat, and the pouring foam that her wheels flung behind

her, she receded with terrifying slowness from this ominous advance.

Glancing northwestward, my brother saw the large crescent of shipping

already writhing with the approaching terror; one ship passing behind

another, another coming round from broadside to end on, steamships

whistling and giving off volumes of steam, sails being let out,

launches rushing hither and thither. He was so fascinated by this and

by the creeping danger away to the left that he had no eyes for

anything seaward. And then a swift movement of the steamboat (she had

suddenly come round to avoid being run down) flung him headlong from

the seat upon which he was standing. There was a shouting all about

him, a trampling of feet, and a cheer that seemed to be answered

faintly. The steamboat lurched and rolled him over upon his hands.

He sprang to his feet and saw to starboard, and not a hundred yards

from their heeling, pitching boat, a vast iron bulk like the blade of a

plough tearing through the water, tossing it on either side in huge

waves of foam that leaped towards the steamer, flinging her paddles

helplessly in the air, and then sucking her deck down almost to the

waterline.

A douche of spray blinded my brother for a moment. When his eyes were

clear again he saw the monster had passed and was rushing landward. Big

iron upperworks rose out of this headlong structure, and from that twin

funnels projected and spat a smoking blast shot with fire. It was the

torpedo ram, _Thunder Child_, steaming headlong, coming to the rescue

of the threatened shipping.

Keeping his footing on the heaving deck by clutching the bulwarks, my

brother looked past this charging leviathan at the Martians again, and

he saw the three of them now close together, and standing so far out to

sea that their tripod supports were almost entirely submerged. Thus

sunken, and seen in remote perspective, they appeared far less

formidable than the huge iron bulk in whose wake the steamer was

pitching so helplessly. It would seem they were regarding this new

antagonist with astonishment. To their intelligence, it may be, the

giant was even such another as themselves. The _Thunder Child_ fired no

gun, but simply drove full speed towards them. It was probably her not

firing that enabled her to get so near the enemy as she did. They did

not know what to make of her. One shell, and they would have sent her

to the bottom forthwith with the Heat-Ray.

She was steaming at such a pace that in a minute she seemed halfway

between the steamboat and the Martians—a diminishing black bulk against

the receding horizontal expanse of the Essex coast.

Suddenly the foremost Martian lowered his tube and discharged a

canister of the black gas at the ironclad. It hit her larboard side and

glanced off in an inky jet that rolled away to seaward, an unfolding

torrent of Black Smoke, from which the ironclad drove clear. To the

watchers from the steamer, low in the water and with the sun in their

eyes, it seemed as though she were already among the Martians.

They saw the gaunt figures separating and rising out of the water as

they retreated shoreward, and one of them raised the camera-like

generator of the Heat-Ray. He held it pointing obliquely downward, and

a bank of steam sprang from the water at its touch. It must have driven