This to Jonathan Harker.

You are to stay with your dear Madam Mina. We shall go to make our

search--if I can call it so, for it is not search but knowing, and we

seek confirmation only. But do you stay and take care of her to-day.

This is your best and most holiest office. This day nothing can find him

here. Let me tell you that so you will know what we four know already,

for I have tell them. He, our enemy, have gone away; he have gone back

to his Castle in Transylvania. I know it so well, as if a great hand of

fire wrote it on the wall. He have prepare for this in some way, and

that last earth-box was ready to ship somewheres. For this he took the

money; for this he hurry at the last, lest we catch him before the sun

go down. It was his last hope, save that he might hide in the tomb that

he think poor Miss Lucy, being as he thought like him, keep open to him.

But there was not of time. When that fail he make straight for his last

resource--his last earth-work I might say did I wish _double entente_.

He is clever, oh, so clever! he know that his game here was finish; and

so he decide he go back home. He find ship going by the route he came,

and he go in it. We go off now to find what ship, and whither bound;

when we have discover that, we come back and tell you all. Then we will

comfort you and poor dear Madam Mina with new hope. For it will be hope

when you think it over: that all is not lost. This very creature that we

pursue, he take hundreds of years to get so far as London; and yet in

one day, when we know of the disposal of him we drive him out. He is

finite, though he is powerful to do much harm and suffers not as we do.

But we are strong, each in our purpose; and we are all more strong

together. Take heart afresh, dear husband of Madam Mina. This battle is

but begun, and in the end we shall win--so sure as that God sits on high

to watch over His children. Therefore be of much comfort till we return.

VAN HELSING.

_Jonathan Harker’s Journal._

_4 October._--When I read to Mina, Van Helsing’s message in the

phonograph, the poor girl brightened up considerably. Already the

certainty that the Count is out of the country has given her comfort;

and comfort is strength to her. For my own part, now that his horrible

danger is not face to face with us, it seems almost impossible to

believe in it. Even my own terrible experiences in Castle Dracula seem

like a long-forgotten dream. Here in the crisp autumn air in the bright

sunlight----

Alas! how can I disbelieve! In the midst of my thought my eye fell on

the red scar on my poor darling’s white forehead. Whilst that lasts,

there can be no disbelief. And afterwards the very memory of it will

keep faith crystal clear. Mina and I fear to be idle, so we have been

over all the diaries again and again. Somehow, although the reality

seems greater each time, the pain and the fear seem less. There is

something of a guiding purpose manifest throughout, which is comforting.

Mina says that perhaps we are the instruments of ultimate good. It may

be! I shall try to think as she does. We have never spoken to each other

yet of the future. It is better to wait till we see the Professor and

the others after their investigations.

The day is running by more quickly than I ever thought a day could run

for me again. It is now three o’clock.

_Mina Harker’s Journal._

_5 October, 5 p. m._--Our meeting for report. Present: Professor Van

Helsing, Lord Godalming, Dr. Seward, Mr. Quincey Morris, Jonathan

Harker, Mina Harker.

Dr. Van Helsing described what steps were taken during the day to

discover on what boat and whither bound Count Dracula made his escape:--

“As I knew that he wanted to get back to Transylvania, I felt sure that

he must go by the Danube mouth; or by somewhere in the Black Sea, since

by that way he come. It was a dreary blank that was before us. _Omne