“I promise,” he said as I gave him the papers; “I shall in the morning,

so soon as I can, come to see you and your husband, if I may.”

“Jonathan will be here at half-past eleven, and you must come to lunch

with us and see him then; you could catch the quick 3:34 train, which

will leave you at Paddington before eight.” He was surprised at my

knowledge of the trains off-hand, but he does not know that I have made

up all the trains to and from Exeter, so that I may help Jonathan in

case he is in a hurry.

So he took the papers with him and went away, and I sit here

thinking--thinking I don’t know what.

 * * * * *

_Letter (by hand), Van Helsing to Mrs. Harker._

“_25 September, 6 o’clock._

“Dear Madam Mina,--

“I have read your husband’s so wonderful diary. You may sleep without

doubt. Strange and terrible as it is, it is _true_! I will pledge my

life on it. It may be worse for others; but for him and you there is no

dread. He is a noble fellow; and let me tell you from experience of men,

that one who would do as he did in going down that wall and to that

room--ay, and going a second time--is not one to be injured in

permanence by a shock. His brain and his heart are all right; this I

swear, before I have even seen him; so be at rest. I shall have much to

ask him of other things. I am blessed that to-day I come to see you, for

I have learn all at once so much that again I am dazzle--dazzle more

than ever, and I must think.

“Yours the most faithful,

“ABRAHAM VAN HELSING.”

_Letter, Mrs. Harker to Van Helsing._

“_25 September, 6:30 p. m._

“My dear Dr. Van Helsing,--

“A thousand thanks for your kind letter, which has taken a great weight

off my mind. And yet, if it be true, what terrible things there are in

the world, and what an awful thing if that man, that monster, be really

in London! I fear to think. I have this moment, whilst writing, had a

wire from Jonathan, saying that he leaves by the 6:25 to-night from

Launceston and will be here at 10:18, so that I shall have no fear

to-night. Will you, therefore, instead of lunching with us, please come

to breakfast at eight o’clock, if this be not too early for you? You can

get away, if you are in a hurry, by the 10:30 train, which will bring

you to Paddington by 2:35. Do not answer this, as I shall take it that,

if I do not hear, you will come to breakfast.

“Believe me,

“Your faithful and grateful friend,

“MINA HARKER.”

_Jonathan Harker’s Journal._

_26 September._--I thought never to write in this diary again, but the

time has come. When I got home last night Mina had supper ready, and

when we had supped she told me of Van Helsing’s visit, and of her having

given him the two diaries copied out, and of how anxious she has been

about me. She showed me in the doctor’s letter that all I wrote down was

true. It seems to have made a new man of me. It was the doubt as to the

reality of the whole thing that knocked me over. I felt impotent, and in

the dark, and distrustful. But, now that I _know_, I am not afraid, even

of the Count. He has succeeded after all, then, in his design in getting

to London, and it was he I saw. He has got younger, and how? Van Helsing

is the man to unmask him and hunt him out, if he is anything like what

Mina says. We sat late, and talked it all over. Mina is dressing, and I

shall call at the hotel in a few minutes and bring him over....

He was, I think, surprised to see me. When I came into the room where he

was, and introduced myself, he took me by the shoulder, and turned my

face round to the light, and said, after a sharp scrutiny:--

“But Madam Mina told me you were ill, that you had had a shock.” It was

so funny to hear my wife called “Madam Mina” by this kindly,

strong-faced old man. I smiled, and said:--

“I _was_ ill, I _have_ had a shock; but you have cured me already.”

“And how?”

“By your letter to Mina last night. I was in doubt, and then everything

took a hue of unreality, and I did not know what to trust, even the

evidence of my own senses. Not knowing what to trust, I did not know

what to do; and so had only to keep on working in what had hitherto been