helpers, who were awaiting the return, hurried out to take charge.

"Yes, everything seems to point to success, Tom," agreed Mr. Damon.

"That is, unless the slight accident we had means trouble."

"Oh, no, that had nothing to do with the operation of the silencer. But

I'm going to do better yet. Some day I'll take you for a ride in a

silent machine which will make so little noise that you can hear a pin

drop."

"Well," remarked Mr. Damon' with a laugh, "I don't know that listening

to falling pins will give me any great amount of pleasure, Tom, but I

appreciate your meaning."

"Everything all right?" asked Mr. Swift, as he came out to hear the

details from his son. "Do you think you have solved the problem?"

"Not completely, but I'll soon be able to write Q. E. D. after it. Some

refinements are all that are needed, Dad."

"Glad to hear it. I was a bit anxious."

Mr. Swift questioned his son about the technical details of the trip,

asking how the motor had acted under the pressure caused by so

completely muffling the exhaust, and for some minutes the two

inventors, young and old, indulged in talk which was not at all

interesting to Mr. Damon. They went into the house, and Tom asked to

have a little lunch, which Mrs. Baggert set out for him.

"It's rather late to eat," said the young inventor, "but I always feel

hungry after I test a new machine and find that it works pretty well.

Will you join me in a sandwich or two, Mr. Damon?"

"Why, bless my ketchup bottle, I believe I will."

And so they ate and talked. Tom was on the point of telling his father

something of the queer cry for help they had heard on the lonely meadow

when Mrs. Baggert produced a letter which she said had come for Tom

that afternoon, but had been mislaid by a new maid who had been engaged

to help with the housework.

"She took it to the shop after you had left, and only now told me about

it," explained Mrs. Baggert. "So I sent Eradicate for it."

"How long ago was that?" asked Tom, as he took the missive.

"Oh, an hour ago," answered Mrs. Baggert, with a smile. "But don't

blame poor Rad for that. He wanted to deliver the letter to you

personally, and so did Koku. The result was your giant kept after Rad,

trying to get the letter from him, and Rad kept hiding and slinking

about for a chance to see you himself until I saw what was going on, a

little while ago, and took the letter myself. Else you might never have

gotten it, so jealous are those two," and Mrs. Baggert laughed.

"Guess it isn't of much importance," Tom said, as he tore open the

envelope. "It's from the Universal Flying Machine Company, of New York,

and I imagine they're trying to get me to reconsider my refusal to link

up with them."

"Yes," he went on, as he read the missive, "that's it. They've raised

the amount to thirty thousand a year now, Dad, and they say they feel

sure I shall regret it if I do not accept.

"This is a bit queer, though," went on the young inventor. "This

letter was written three days ago, but it reached Shopton only to-day.

And it says that unless they hear from me at once they will have to

take steps that will cause me great inconvenience. They have nerve, at

any rate, and impudence, too! I won't even bother to answer. But I

wonder what they mean, and why this letter was delayed?"

"The mails are all late on account of the transportation congestion

caused by moving troops to the camps," said Mr. Damon. "Some of my

letters are delayed a week. But, as you say, Tom, these fellows are

very impudent to threaten that way."

"It's all bluff," declared Tom. "I'm not worrying. And now, Dad, since

I've almost reached the top of the hill with my Air Scout, I may be

able to help you on that new electric motor you're puzzling over."

"I wish you would, Tom. I am trying to invent a new system of

interchangeable brush contacts, but so far I've been unable to make

them work. However, there is no great hurry about that. If you are

going to offer your silent machine to the government finish that first.

We need all the aircraft we can get. The battles on the other side seem

to be all in favor of the Germans, so far."

"We haven't got into our stride yet," declared Mr. Damon. "Once Uncle