Of a despised life clos'd in my brest:

By some vile forfeit of vntimely death.

But he that hath the stirrage of my course,

Direct my sute: on lustie Gentlemen

 Ben. Strike Drum.

They march about the Stage, and Seruingmen come forth with

their napkins.

Enter Seruant.

 Ser. Where's Potpan, that he helpes not to take away?

He shift a Trencher? he scrape a Trencher?

 1. When good manners, shall lie in one or two mens

hands, and they vnwasht too, 'tis a foule thing

 Ser. Away with the Ioynstooles, remoue the Courtcubbord,

looke to the Plate: good thou, saue mee a piece

of Marchpane, and as thou louest me, let the Porter let in

Susan Grindstone, and Nell, Anthonie and Potpan

 2. I Boy readie

 Ser. You are lookt for, and cal'd for, askt for, & sought

for, in the great Chamber

 1. We cannot be here and there too, chearly Boyes,

Be brisk awhile, and the longer liuer take all.

Exeunt.

Enter all the Guests and Gentlewomen to the Maskers.

 1. Capu. Welcome Gentlemen,

Ladies that haue their toes

Vnplagu'd with Cornes, will walke about with you:

Ah my Mistresses, which of you all

Will now deny to dance? She that makes dainty,

She Ile sweare hath Cornes: am I come neare ye now?

Welcome Gentlemen, I haue seene the day

That I haue worne a Visor, and could tell

A whispering tale in a faire Ladies eare:

Such as would please: 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone,

You are welcome Gentlemen, come Musitians play:

Musicke plaies: and they dance.

A Hall, Hall, giue roome, and foote it Girles,

More light you knaues, and turne the Tables vp:

And quench the fire, the Roome is growne too hot.

Ah sirrah, this vnlookt for sport comes well:

Nay sit, nay sit, good Cozin Capulet,

For you and I are past our dauncing daies:

How long 'ist now since last your selfe and I

Were in a Maske?

 2. Capu. Berlady thirty yeares

 1. Capu. What man: 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much,

'Tis since the Nuptiall of Lucentio,

Come Pentycost as quickely as it will,

Some fiue and twenty yeares, and then we Maskt

 2. Cap. 'Tis more, 'tis more, his Sonne is elder sir:

His Sonne is thirty

 3. Cap. Will you tell me that?

His Sonne was but a Ward two yeares agoe

 Rom. What Ladie is that which doth inrich the hand

Of yonder Knight?

 Ser. I know not sir

 Rom. O she doth teach the Torches to burne bright:

It seemes she hangs vpon the cheeke of night,

As a rich Iewel in an aethiops eare:

Beauty too rich for vse, for earth too deare:

So shewes a Snowy Doue trooping with Crowes,

As yonder Lady ore her fellowes showes;

The measure done, Ile watch her place of stand,

And touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.

Did my heart loue till now, forsweare it sight,

For I neuer saw true Beauty till this night

 Tib. This by his voice, should be a Mountague.

Fetch me my Rapier Boy, what dares the slaue

Come hither couer'd with an antique face,

To fleere and scorne at our Solemnitie?

Now by the stocke and Honour of my kin,

To strike him dead I hold it not a sin

 Cap. Why how now kinsman,

Wherefore storme you so?

 Tib. Vncle this is a Mountague, our foe: