 Gr. Say better: here comes one of my masters kinsmen

 Samp. Yes, better

 Abra. You Lye

 Samp. Draw if you be men. Gregory, remember thy

washing blow.

They Fight.

 Ben. Part Fooles, put vp your Swords, you know not

what you do.

Enter Tibalt.

 Tyb. What art thou drawne, among these heartlesse

Hindes? Turne thee Benuolio, looke vpon thy death

 Ben. I do but keepe the peace, put vp thy Sword,

Or manage it to part these men with me

 Tyb. What draw, and talke of peace? I hate the word

As I hate hell, all Mountagues, and thee:

Haue at thee Coward.

Fight.

Enter three or foure Citizens with Clubs.

 Offi. Clubs, Bils, and Partisons, strike, beat them down

Downe with the Capulets, downe with the Mountagues.

Enter old Capulet in his Gowne, and his wife.

 Cap. What noise is this? Giue me my long Sword ho

 Wife. A crutch, a crutch: why call you for a Sword?

 Cap. My Sword I say: Old Mountague is come,

And flourishes his Blade in spight of me.

Enter old Mountague, & his wife.

 Moun. Thou villaine Capulet. Hold me not, let me go

 2.Wife. Thou shalt not stir a foote to seeke a Foe.

Enter Prince Eskales, with his Traine.

 Prince. Rebellious Subiects, Enemies to peace,

Prophaners of this Neighbor-stained Steele,

Will they not heare? What hoe, you Men, you Beasts,

That quench the fire of your pernitious Rage,

With purple Fountaines issuing from your Veines:

On paine of Torture, from those bloody hands

Throw your mistemper'd Weapons to the ground,

And heare the Sentence of your mooued Prince.

Three ciuill Broyles, bred of an Ayery word,

By thee old Capulet and Mountague,

Haue thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,

And made Verona's ancient Citizens

Cast by their Graue beseeming Ornaments,

To wield old Partizans, in hands as old,

Cankred with peace, to part your Cankred hate,

If euer you disturbe our streets againe,

Your liues shall pay the forfeit of the peace.

For this time all the rest depart away:

You Capulet shall goe along with me,

And Mountague come you this afternoone,

To know our Fathers pleasure in this case:

To old Free-towne, our common iudgement place:

Once more on paine of death, all men depart.

Exeunt.

 Moun. Who set this auncient quarrell new abroach?

Speake Nephew, were you by, when it began:

 Ben. Heere were the seruants of your aduersarie,

And yours close fighting ere I did approach,

I drew to part them, in the instant came

The fiery Tibalt, with his sword prepar'd,

Which as he breath'd defiance to my eares,

He swong about his head, and cut the windes,

Who nothing hurt withall, hist him in scorne.

While we were enterchanging thrusts and blowes,

Came more and more, and fought on part and part,

Till the Prince came, who parted either part

 Wife. O where is Romeo, saw you him to day?

Right glad am I, he was not at this fray

 Ben. Madam, an houre before the worshipt Sun

Peer'd forth the golden window of the East,

A troubled mind draue me to walke abroad,

Where vnderneath the groue of Sycamour,

That West-ward rooteth from this City side:

So earely walking did I see your Sonne:

Towards him I made, but he was ware of me,