thou not frown? Wilt thou forgive?”

“I do forgive you, Hester,” replied the minister, at length, with a

deep utterance, out of an abyss of sadness, but no anger. “I freely

forgive you now. May God forgive us both! We are not, Hester, the

worst sinners in the world. There is one worse than even the polluted

priest! That old man’s revenge has been blacker than my sin. He has

violated, in cold blood, the sanctity of a human heart. Thou and I,

Hester, never did so!”

“Never, never!” whispered she. “What we did had a consecration of its

own. We felt it so! We said so to each other! Hast thou forgotten it?”

“Hush, Hester!” said Arthur Dimmesdale, rising from the ground. “No; I

have not forgotten!”

They sat down again, side by side, and hand clasped in hand, on the

mossy trunk of the fallen tree. Life had never brought them a gloomier

hour; it was the point whither their pathway had so long been tending,

and darkening ever, as it stole along;—and yet it enclosed a charm

that made them linger upon it, and claim another, and another, and,

after all, another moment. The forest was obscure around them, and

creaked with a blast that was passing through it. The boughs were

tossing heavily above their heads; while one solemn old tree groaned

dolefully to another, as if telling the sad story of the pair that sat

beneath, or constrained to forebode evil to come.

And yet they lingered. How dreary looked the forest-track that led

backward to the settlement, where Hester Prynne must take up again the

burden of her ignominy, and the minister the hollow mockery of his

good name! So they lingered an instant longer. No golden light had

ever been so precious as the gloom of this dark forest. Here, seen

only by his eyes, the scarlet letter need not burn into the bosom of

the fallen woman! Here, seen only by her eyes, Arthur Dimmesdale,

false to God and man, might be, for one moment, true!

He started at a thought that suddenly occurred to him.

“Hester,” cried he, “here is a new horror! Roger Chillingworth knows

your purpose to reveal his true character. Will he continue, then, to

keep our secret? What will now be the course of his revenge?”

“There is a strange secrecy in his nature,” replied Hester,

thoughtfully; “and it has grown upon him by the hidden practices of

his revenge. I deem it not likely that he will betray the secret. He

will doubtless seek other means of satiating his dark passion.”

“And I!—how am I to live longer, breathing the same air with this

deadly enemy?” exclaimed Arthur Dimmesdale, shrinking within himself,

and pressing his hand nervously against his heart,—a gesture that had

grown involuntary with him.

“Think for me, Hester! Thou art strong. Resolve for me!”

“Thou must dwell no longer with this man,” said Hester, slowly and

firmly. “Thy heart must be no longer under his evil eye!”

“It were far worse than death!” replied the minister. “But how to

avoid it? What choice remains to me? Shall I lie down again on these

withered leaves, where I cast myself when thou didst tell me what he

was? Must I sink down there, and die at once?”

“Alas, what a ruin has befallen thee!” said Hester, with the tears

gushing into her eyes. “Wilt thou die for very weakness? There is no

other cause!”

“The judgment of God is on me,” answered the conscience-stricken

priest. “It is too mighty for me to struggle with!”

“Heaven would show mercy,” rejoined Hester, “hadst thou but the

strength to take advantage of it.”

“Be thou strong for me!” answered he. “Advise me what to do.”

“Is the world, then, so narrow?” exclaimed Hester Prynne, fixing her

deep eyes on the minister’s, and instinctively exercising a magnetic

power over a spirit so shattered and subdued that it could hardly hold

itself erect. “Doth the universe lie within the compass of yonder