scattered on the pavement. I did not trouble to touch them. Farther on

was a tattered woman in a heap on a doorstep; the hand that hung over

her knee was gashed and bled down her rusty brown dress, and a smashed

magnum of champagne formed a pool across the pavement. She seemed

asleep, but she was dead.

The farther I penetrated into London, the profounder grew the

stillness. But it was not so much the stillness of death—it was the

stillness of suspense, of expectation. At any time the destruction that

had already singed the northwestern borders of the metropolis, and had

annihilated Ealing and Kilburn, might strike among these houses and

leave them smoking ruins. It was a city condemned and derelict. . . .

In South Kensington the streets were clear of dead and of black powder.

It was near South Kensington that I first heard the howling. It crept

almost imperceptibly upon my senses. It was a sobbing alternation of

two notes, “Ulla, ulla, ulla, ulla,” keeping on perpetually. When I

passed streets that ran northward it grew in volume, and houses and

buildings seemed to deaden and cut it off again. It came in a full tide

down Exhibition Road. I stopped, staring towards Kensington Gardens,

wondering at this strange, remote wailing. It was as if that mighty

desert of houses had found a voice for its fear and solitude.

“Ulla, ulla, ulla, ulla,” wailed that superhuman note—great waves of

sound sweeping down the broad, sunlit roadway, between the tall

buildings on each side. I turned northwards, marvelling, towards the

iron gates of Hyde Park. I had half a mind to break into the Natural

History Museum and find my way up to the summits of the towers, in

order to see across the park. But I decided to keep to the ground,

where quick hiding was possible, and so went on up the Exhibition Road.

All the large mansions on each side of the road were empty and still,

and my footsteps echoed against the sides of the houses. At the top,

near the park gate, I came upon a strange sight—a bus overturned, and

the skeleton of a horse picked clean. I puzzled over this for a time,

and then went on to the bridge over the Serpentine. The voice grew

stronger and stronger, though I could see nothing above the housetops

on the north side of the park, save a haze of smoke to the northwest.

“Ulla, ulla, ulla, ulla,” cried the voice, coming, as it seemed to me,

from the district about Regent’s Park. The desolating cry worked upon

my mind. The mood that had sustained me passed. The wailing took

possession of me. I found I was intensely weary, footsore, and now

again hungry and thirsty.

It was already past noon. Why was I wandering alone in this city of the

dead? Why was I alone when all London was lying in state, and in its

black shroud? I felt intolerably lonely. My mind ran on old friends

that I had forgotten for years. I thought of the poisons in the

chemists’ shops, of the liquors the wine merchants stored; I recalled

the two sodden creatures of despair, who so far as I knew, shared the

city with myself. . . .

I came into Oxford Street by the Marble Arch, and here again were black

powder and several bodies, and an evil, ominous smell from the gratings

of the cellars of some of the houses. I grew very thirsty after the

heat of my long walk. With infinite trouble I managed to break into a

public-house and get food and drink. I was weary after eating, and went

into the parlour behind the bar, and slept on a black horsehair sofa I

found there.

I awoke to find that dismal howling still in my ears, “Ulla, ulla,

ulla, ulla.” It was now dusk, and after I had routed out some biscuits

and a cheese in the bar—there was a meat safe, but it contained nothing

but maggots—I wandered on through the silent residential squares to

Baker Street—Portman Square is the only one I can name—and so came out

at last upon Regent’s Park. And as I emerged from the top of Baker

Street, I saw far away over the trees in the clearness of the sunset

the hood of the Martian giant from which this howling proceeded. I was