Under his sister’s experienced hand, the pillows and covers on the beds

flew up and were put into order and she had already finished making the

beds and slipped out again before the three gentlemen had reached the

room. Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he

forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants. He urged them and

pressed them until, when he was already at the door of the room, the

middle of the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot

and thereby brought Gregor’s father to a halt. “I declare here and

now”, he said, raising his hand and glancing at Gregor’s mother and

sister to gain their attention too, “that with regard to the repugnant

conditions that prevail in this flat and with this family”—here he

looked briefly but decisively at the floor—“I give immediate notice on

my room. For the days that I have been living here I will, of course,

pay nothing at all, on the contrary I will consider whether to proceed

with some kind of action for damages from you, and believe me it would

be very easy to set out the grounds for such an action.” He was silent

and looked straight ahead as if waiting for something. And indeed, his

two friends joined in with the words: “And we also give immediate

notice.” With that, he took hold of the door handle and slammed the

door.

Gregor’s father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his

hands, and fell into it; it looked as if he was stretching himself out

for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head kept

nodding it could be seen that he was not sleeping at all. Throughout

all this, Gregor had lain still where the three gentlemen had first

seen him. His disappointment at the failure of his plan, and perhaps

also because he was weak from hunger, made it impossible for him to

move. He was sure that everyone would turn on him any moment, and he

waited. He was not even startled out of this state when the violin on

his mother’s lap fell from her trembling fingers and landed loudly on

the floor.

“Father, Mother”, said his sister, hitting the table with her hand as

introduction, “we can’t carry on like this. Maybe you can’t see it, but

I can. I don’t want to call this monster my brother, all I can say is:

we have to try and get rid of it. We’ve done all that’s humanly

possible to look after it and be patient, I don’t think anyone could

accuse us of doing anything wrong.”

“She’s absolutely right”, said Gregor’s father to himself. His mother,

who still had not had time to catch her breath, began to cough dully,

her hand held out in front of her and a deranged expression in her

eyes.

Gregor’s sister rushed to his mother and put her hand on her forehead.

Her words seemed to give Gregor’s father some more definite ideas. He

sat upright, played with his uniform cap between the plates left by the

three gentlemen after their meal, and occasionally looked down at

Gregor as he lay there immobile.

“We have to try and get rid of it”, said Gregor’s sister, now speaking

only to her father, as her mother was too occupied with coughing to

listen, “it’ll be the death of both of you, I can see it coming. We

can’t all work as hard as we have to and then come home to be tortured

like this, we can’t endure it. I can’t endure it any more.” And she

broke out so heavily in tears that they flowed down the face of her

mother, and she wiped them away with mechanical hand movements.

“My child”, said her father with sympathy and obvious understanding,

“what are we to do?”

His sister just shrugged her shoulders as a sign of the helplessness

and tears that had taken hold of her, displacing her earlier certainty.

“If he could just understand us”, said his father almost as a question;

his sister shook her hand vigorously through her tears as a sign that

of that there was no question.

“If he could just understand us”, repeated Gregor’s father, closing his

eyes in acceptance of his sister’s certainty that that was quite

impossible, “then perhaps we could come to some kind of arrangement

with him. But as it is ...”

“It’s got to go”, shouted his sister, “that’s the only way, Father.

You’ve got to get rid of the idea that that’s Gregor. We’ve only harmed

ourselves by believing it for so long. How can that be Gregor? If it

were Gregor he would have seen long ago that it’s not possible for

human beings to live with an animal like that and he would have gone of

his own free will. We wouldn’t have a brother any more, then, but we

could carry on with our lives and remember him with respect. As it is

this animal is persecuting us, it’s driven out our tenants, it

obviously wants to take over the whole flat and force us to sleep on

the streets. Father, look, just look”, she suddenly screamed, “he’s

starting again!” In her alarm, which was totally beyond Gregor’s

comprehension, his sister even abandoned his mother as she pushed