 other, and it did not much signify when. Since such were her

 feelings, it only remained, he thought, to secure and expedite a

 marriage, which, in his very first conversation with Wickham, he

 easily learnt had never been _his_ design. He confessed himself

 obliged to leave the regiment on account of some debts of honour

 which were very pressing; and scrupled not to lay all the ill

 consequences of Lydia’s flight on her own folly alone. He meant to

 resign his commission immediately; and as to his future situation,

 he could conjecture very little about it. He must go somewhere, but

 he did not know where, and he knew he should have nothing to live

 on. Mr. Darcy asked why he did not marry your sister at once.

 Though Mr. Bennet was not imagined to be very rich, he would have

 been able to do something for him, and his situation must have been

 benefited by marriage. But he found, in reply to this question,

 that Wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making

 his fortune by marriage, in some other country. Under such

 circumstances, however, he was not likely to be proof against the

 temptation of immediate relief. They met several times, for there

 was much to be discussed. Wickham, of course, wanted more than he

 could get; but at length was reduced to be reasonable. Everything

 being settled between _them_, Mr. Darcy’s next step was to make

 your uncle acquainted with it, and he first called in Gracechurch

 Street the evening before I came home. But Mr. Gardiner could not

 be seen; and Mr. Darcy found, on further inquiry, that your father

 was still with him, but would quit town the next morning. He did

 not judge your father to be a person whom he could so properly

 consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing him

 till after the departure of the former. He did not leave his name,

 and till the next day it was only known that a gentleman had called

 on business. On Saturday he came again. Your father was gone, your

 uncle at home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk

 together. They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too. It

 was not all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express

 was sent off to Longbourn. But our visitor was very obstinate. I

 fancy, Lizzy, that obstinacy is the real defect of his character,

 after all. He has been accused of many faults at different times;

 but _this_ is the true one. Nothing was to be done that he did not

 do himself; though I am sure (and I do not speak it to be thanked,

 therefore say nothing about it) your uncle would most readily have

 settled the whole. They battled it together for a long time, which

 was more than either the gentleman or lady concerned in it

 deserved. But at last your uncle was forced to yield, and instead

 of being allowed to be of use to his niece, was forced to put up

 with only having the probable credit of it, which went sorely

 against the grain; and I really believe your letter this morning

 gave him great pleasure, because it required an explanation that

 would rob him of his borrowed feathers, and give the praise where

 it was due. But, Lizzy, this must go no further than yourself, or

 Jane at most. You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done

 for the young people. His debts are to be paid, amounting, I

 believe, to considerably more than a thousand pounds, another

 thousand in addition to her own settled upon _her_, and his

 commission purchased. The reason why all this was to be done by him

 alone, was such as I have given above. It was owing to him, to his

 reserve and want of proper consideration, that Wickham’s character

 had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he had been

 received and noticed as he was. Perhaps there was some truth in

 _this_; though I doubt whether _his_ reserve, or _anybody’s_

 reserve can be answerable for the event. But in spite of all this

 fine talking, my dear Lizzy, you may rest perfectly assured that

 your uncle would never have yielded, if we had not given him credit

 for _another interest_ in the affair. When all this was resolved

 on, he returned again to his friends, who were still staying at

 Pemberley; but it was agreed that he should be in London once more

 when the wedding took place, and all money matters were then to

 receive the last finish. I believe I have now told you everything.

 It is a relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise; I