CHAPTER XVI

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY--_continued_

It was just a quarter before twelve o’clock when we got into the

churchyard over the low wall. The night was dark with occasional gleams

of moonlight between the rents of the heavy clouds that scudded across

the sky. We all kept somehow close together, with Van Helsing slightly

in front as he led the way. When we had come close to the tomb I looked

well at Arthur, for I feared that the proximity to a place laden with so

sorrowful a memory would upset him; but he bore himself well. I took it

that the very mystery of the proceeding was in some way a counteractant

to his grief. The Professor unlocked the door, and seeing a natural

hesitation amongst us for various reasons, solved the difficulty by

entering first himself. The rest of us followed, and he closed the door.

He then lit a dark lantern and pointed to the coffin. Arthur stepped

forward hesitatingly; Van Helsing said to me:--

“You were with me here yesterday. Was the body of Miss Lucy in that

coffin?”

“It was.” The Professor turned to the rest saying:--

“You hear; and yet there is no one who does not believe with me.” He

took his screwdriver and again took off the lid of the coffin. Arthur

looked on, very pale but silent; when the lid was removed he stepped

forward. He evidently did not know that there was a leaden coffin, or,

at any rate, had not thought of it. When he saw the rent in the lead,

the blood rushed to his face for an instant, but as quickly fell away

again, so that he remained of a ghastly whiteness; he was still silent.

Van Helsing forced back the leaden flange, and we all looked in and

recoiled.

The coffin was empty!

For several minutes no one spoke a word. The silence was broken by

Quincey Morris:--

“Professor, I answered for you. Your word is all I want. I wouldn’t ask

such a thing ordinarily--I wouldn’t so dishonour you as to imply a

doubt; but this is a mystery that goes beyond any honour or dishonour.

Is this your doing?”

“I swear to you by all that I hold sacred that I have not removed nor

touched her. What happened was this: Two nights ago my friend Seward and

I came here--with good purpose, believe me. I opened that coffin, which

was then sealed up, and we found it, as now, empty. We then waited, and

saw something white come through the trees. The next day we came here in

day-time, and she lay there. Did she not, friend John?”

“Yes.”

“That night we were just in time. One more so small child was missing,

and we find it, thank God, unharmed amongst the graves. Yesterday I came

here before sundown, for at sundown the Un-Dead can move. I waited here

all the night till the sun rose, but I saw nothing. It was most probable

that it was because I had laid over the clamps of those doors garlic,

which the Un-Dead cannot bear, and other things which they shun. Last

night there was no exodus, so to-night before the sundown I took away my

garlic and other things. And so it is we find this coffin empty. But

bear with me. So far there is much that is strange. Wait you with me

outside, unseen and unheard, and things much stranger are yet to be.

So”--here he shut the dark slide of his lantern--“now to the outside.”

He opened the door, and we filed out, he coming last and locking the

door behind him.

Oh! but it seemed fresh and pure in the night air after the terror of

that vault. How sweet it was to see the clouds race by, and the passing

gleams of the moonlight between the scudding clouds crossing and

passing--like the gladness and sorrow of a man’s life; how sweet it was

to breathe the fresh air, that had no taint of death and decay; how

humanising to see the red lighting of the sky beyond the hill, and to

hear far away the muffled roar that marks the life of a great city. Each

in his own way was solemn and overcome. Arthur was silent, and was, I

could see, striving to grasp the purpose and the inner meaning of the

mystery. I was myself tolerably patient, and half inclined again to

throw aside doubt and to accept Van Helsing’s conclusions. Quincey