touched a sensibility in every bosom! At times this deep strain of

pathos was all that could be heard, and scarcely heard, sighing amid a

desolate silence. But even when the minister’s voice grew high and

commanding,—when it gushed irrepressibly upward,—when it assumed its

utmost breadth and power, so overfilling the church as to burst its

way through the solid walls, and diffuse itself in the open

air,—still, if the auditor listened intently, and for the purpose, he

could detect the same cry of pain. What was it? The complaint of a

human heart, sorrow-laden, perchance guilty, telling its secret,

whether of guilt or sorrow, to the great heart of mankind; beseeching

its sympathy or forgiveness,—at every moment,—in each accent,—and

never in vain! It was this profound and continual undertone that gave

the clergyman his most appropriate power.

During all this time, Hester stood, statue-like, at the foot of the

scaffold. If the minister’s voice had not kept her there, there would

nevertheless have been an inevitable magnetism in that spot, whence

she dated the first hour of her life of ignominy. There was a sense

within her,—too ill-defined to be made a thought, but weighing

heavily on her mind,—that her whole orb of life, both before and

after, was connected with this spot, as with the one point that gave

it unity.

Little Pearl, meanwhile, had quitted her mother’s side, and was

playing at her own will about the market-place. She made the sombre

crowd cheerful by her erratic and glistening ray; even as a bird of

bright plumage illuminates a whole tree of dusky foliage, by darting

to and fro, half seen and half concealed amid the twilight of the

clustering leaves. She had an undulating, but, oftentimes, a sharp and

irregular movement. It indicated the restless vivacity of her spirit,

which to-day was doubly indefatigable in its tiptoe dance, because it

was played upon and vibrated with her mother’s disquietude. Whenever

Pearl saw anything to excite her ever-active and wandering curiosity,

she flew thitherward and, as we might say, seized upon that man or

thing as her own property, so far as she desired it; but without

yielding the minutest degree of control over her motions in requital.

The Puritans looked on, and, if they smiled, were none the less

inclined to pronounce the child a demon offspring, from the

indescribable charm of beauty and eccentricity that shone through her

little figure, and sparkled with its activity. She ran and looked the

wild Indian in the face; and he grew conscious of a nature wilder than

his own. Thence, with native audacity, but still with a reserve as

characteristic, she flew into the midst of a group of mariners, the

swarthy-cheeked wild men of the ocean, as the Indians were of the

land; and they gazed wonderingly and admiringly at Pearl, as if a

flake of the sea-foam had taken the shape of a little maid, and were

gifted with a soul of the sea-fire, that flashes beneath the prow in

the night-time.

One of these seafaring men—the shipmaster, indeed, who had spoken to

Hester Prynne—was so smitten with Pearl’s aspect, that he attempted

to lay hands upon her, with purpose to snatch a kiss. Finding it as

impossible to touch her as to catch a humming-bird in the air, he took

from his hat the gold chain that was twisted about it, and threw it to

the child. Pearl immediately twined it around her neck and waist,

with such happy skill, that, once seen there, it became a part of her,

and it was difficult to imagine her without it.

“Thy mother is yonder woman with the scarlet letter,” said the seaman.

“Wilt thou carry her a message from me?”

“If the message pleases me, I will,” answered Pearl.

“Then tell her,” rejoined he, “that I spake again with the

black-a-visaged, hump-shouldered old doctor, and he engages to bring

his friend, the gentleman she wots of, aboard with him. So let thy

mother take no thought, save for herself and thee. Wilt thou tell her

this, thou witch-baby?”

“Mistress Hibbins says my father is the Prince of the Air!” cried

Pearl, with a naughty smile. “If thou callest me that ill name, I

shall tell him of thee; and he will chase thy ship with a tempest!”

Pursuing a zigzag course across the market-place, the child returned

to her mother, and communicated what the mariner had said. Hester’s

strong, calm, steadfastly enduring spirit almost sank, at last, on

beholding this dark and grim countenance of an inevitable doom,

which—at the moment when a passage seemed to open for the minister

and herself out of their labyrinth of misery—showed itself, with an

unrelenting smile, right in the midst of their path.

With her mind harassed by the terrible perplexity in which the

shipmaster’s intelligence involved her, she was also subjected to

another trial. There were many people present, from the country round

about, who had often heard of the scarlet letter, and to whom it had

been made terrific by a hundred false or exaggerated rumors, but who

had never beheld it with their own bodily eyes. These, after