 Rom. O let vs hence, I stand on sudden hast

 Fri. Wisely and slow, they stumble that run fast.

Exeunt.

Enter Benuolio and Mercutio.

 Mer. Where the deule should this Romeo be? came he

not home to night?

 Ben. Not to his Fathers, I spoke with his man

 Mer. Why that same pale hard-harted wench, that Rosaline

torments him so, that he will sure run mad

 Ben. Tibalt, the kinsman to old Capulet, hath sent a Letter

to his Fathers house

 Mer. A challenge on my life

 Ben. Romeo will answere it

 Mer. Any man that can write, may answere a Letter

 Ben. Nay, he will answere the Letters Maister how he

dares, being dared

 Mer. Alas poore Romeo, he is already dead stab'd with

a white wenches blacke eye, runne through the eare with

a Loue song, the very pinne of his heart, cleft with the

blind Bowe-boyes but-shaft, and is he a man to encounter

Tybalt?

 Ben. Why what is Tibalt?

 Mer. More then Prince of Cats. Oh hee's the Couragious

Captaine of Complements: he fights as you sing

pricksong, keeps time, distance, and proportion, he rests

his minum, one, two, and the third in your bosom: the very

butcher of a silk button, a Dualist, a Dualist: a Gentleman

of the very first house of the first and second cause: ah the

immortall Passado, the Punto reuerso, the Hay

 Ben. The what?

 Mer. The Pox of such antique lisping affecting phantacies,

these new tuners of accent: Iesu a very good blade,

a very tall man, a very good whore. Why is not this a lamentable

thing Grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted

with these strange flies: these fashion Mongers, these

pardon-mee's,

who stand so much on the new form, that they

cannot sit at ease on the old bench. O their bones, their

bones.

Enter Romeo.

 Ben. Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo

 Mer. Without his Roe, like a dryed Hering. O flesh,

flesh, how art thou fishified? Now is he for the numbers

that Petrarch flowed in: Laura to his Lady, was a kitchen

wench, marrie she had a better Loue to berime her: Dido

a dowdie, Cleopatra a Gipsie, Hellen and Hero, hildings

and Harlots: Thisbie a gray eie or so, but not to the purpose.

Signior Romeo, Bon iour, there's a French salutation to your

French slop: you gaue vs the counterfait fairely last

night

 Romeo. Good morrow to you both, what counterfeit

did I giue you?

 Mer. The slip sir, the slip, can you not conceiue?

 Rom. Pardon Mercutio, my businesse was great, and in

such a case as mine, a man may straine curtesie

 Mer. That's as much as to say, such a case as yours constrains

a man to bow in the hams

 Rom. Meaning to cursie

 Mer. Thou hast most kindly hit it

 Rom. A most curteous exposition

 Mer. Nay, I am the very pinck of curtesie

 Rom. Pinke for flower

 Mer. Right

 Rom. Why then is my Pump well flowr'd