The door is shut, and the chains rattle; there is a grinding of the key

in the lock; I can hear the key withdraw: then another door opens and

shuts; I hear the creaking of lock and bolt.

Hark! in the courtyard and down the rocky way the roll of heavy wheels,

the crack of whips, and the chorus of the Szgany as they pass into the

distance.

I am alone in the castle with those awful women. Faugh! Mina is a woman,

and there is nought in common. They are devils of the Pit!

I shall not remain alone with them; I shall try to scale the castle wall

farther than I have yet attempted. I shall take some of the gold with

me, lest I want it later. I may find a way from this dreadful place.

And then away for home! away to the quickest and nearest train! away

from this cursed spot, from this cursed land, where the devil and his

children still walk with earthly feet!

At least God’s mercy is better than that of these monsters, and the

precipice is steep and high. At its foot a man may sleep--as a man.

Good-bye, all! Mina!

CHAPTER V

_Letter from Miss Mina Murray to Miss Lucy Westenra._

“_9 May._

“My dearest Lucy,--

“Forgive my long delay in writing, but I have been simply overwhelmed

with work. The life of an assistant schoolmistress is sometimes trying.

I am longing to be with you, and by the sea, where we can talk together

freely and build our castles in the air. I have been working very hard

lately, because I want to keep up with Jonathan’s studies, and I have

been practising shorthand very assiduously. When we are married I shall

be able to be useful to Jonathan, and if I can stenograph well enough I

can take down what he wants to say in this way and write it out for

him on the typewriter, at which also I am practising very hard. He

and I sometimes write letters in shorthand, and he is keeping a

stenographic journal of his travels abroad. When I am with you I

shall keep a diary in the same way. I don’t mean one of those

two-pages-to-the-week-with-Sunday-squeezed-in-a-corner diaries, but a

sort of journal which I can write in whenever I feel inclined. I do not

suppose there will be much of interest to other people; but it is not

intended for them. I may show it to Jonathan some day if there is in it

anything worth sharing, but it is really an exercise book. I shall try

to do what I see lady journalists do: interviewing and writing

descriptions and trying to remember conversations. I am told that, with

a little practice, one can remember all that goes on or that one hears

said during a day. However, we shall see. I will tell you of my little

plans when we meet. I have just had a few hurried lines from Jonathan

from Transylvania. He is well, and will be returning in about a week. I

am longing to hear all his news. It must be so nice to see strange

countries. I wonder if we--I mean Jonathan and I--shall ever see them

together. There is the ten o’clock bell ringing. Good-bye.

“Your loving

“MINA.

“Tell me all the news when you write. You have not told me anything for

a long time. I hear rumours, and especially of a tall, handsome,

curly-haired man???”

_Letter, Lucy Westenra to Mina Murray_.

“_17, Chatham Street_,

“_Wednesday_.

“My dearest Mina,--

“I must say you tax me _very_ unfairly with being a bad correspondent. I

wrote to you _twice_ since we parted, and your last letter was only your

_second_. Besides, I have nothing to tell you. There is really nothing

to interest you. Town is very pleasant just now, and we go a good deal

to picture-galleries and for walks and rides in the park. As to the

tall, curly-haired man, I suppose it was the one who was with me at the