were doing, or they may have thought he would get better treatment in a

private house, if he were not badly injured, than if he should be taken

to a hospital. It may have been that one of the persons in the auto was

a physician, and wished to try his own skill on the man he had hurt."

"You make me feel more comfortable, Tom," said Mary. "But, even

supposing all this, why couldn't they telephone to us that my father

was all right? He always carries an identification card with him, and

if he were unconscious it could be ascertained who he was."

"That's what I can't understand," said Tom frankly. "It puzzles me. But

we'll find him--never fear!"

And so he kept on with his telephone inquiries, while a physician and

her sister ministered to Mrs. Nestor. The night was very, very long,

and no good news came in.

CHAPTER XVII

SILENT SAM

Slowly the dawn broke through the mists of darkness, and made the earth

light. The sun came straggling in through cracks in the shutters in the

home of Mr. Nestor, the gradually increasing gleam paling the electric

lights, in the glare of which Tom Swift, Mary, and her aunt sat,

waiting for some word of the missing man. But none came.

"What shall we do now?" asked Mary, as she looked at Tom.

"Oh, there's lots to do," he said, trying to make his voice sound

cheerful. "We'll be busy all day. I sent word to have one of my touring

cars ready to hurry to any part of the country the moment we should get

word from your father."

"And do you think we shall get word, Tom?" the girl went on wistfully.

"Of course we shall!" he cried. "Word may come in at any time. Now get

ready, eat a good breakfast, and then you can go with me as soon as we

hear anything definite. Come, we'll have breakfast!"

"I can't eat a thing!" protested Mary.

"Oh, yes you can," said her aunt, who was a cheerful sort of person.

"I'll see about getting something for you and Mr. Swift, and see that

your mother is all right."

She left the room to give orders to the servant about the meal, and

returned to say that Mrs. Nestor was sleeping quietly. She had been

given a sedative. Mary managed to eat a little, and she gave Tom the

address of several friends who were called up in the vain hope that,

somehow, Mr. Nestor might have gone to see them.

"Tom, what do you really think has happened?" asked Mary again, as they

sat facing one another in the library, during a respite from the

telephone.

Tom Swift repeated, to the girl his theory of what had happened with an

assumption of confidence he did not altogether feel.

His prediction of a speedy end to the suspense did not come true that

day, nor for many days. No news was heard of Mr. Nestor. After the

first day, when there was no information and when no reports came of

any one of his description having been hurt in an automobile accident

or having been taken to any hospital, the police started an energetic

search.

The authorities in all near-by cities were notified, and all thought of

keeping from the public what had happened was given over. Tom's story,

of how he and Mr. Damon had heard the cry for help on the lonely

meadow, was printed in the papers, though the young inventor did not

say that he had been out trying his new aeroplane. That was a detail

not needed in the finding of Mr. Nestor.

But Mary's father was not found. The mystery regarding his

disappearance deepened, and there was no trace of him after he had left

Tom's house that eventful evening. Persons living along the roads he

might have taken in riding his bicycle were questioned, but they had

seen nothing of him, nor were they aware of any accident. Tom's

testimony and that of Mr. Damon was all the clew there was.

"I don't believe he's dead!" stoutly declared the young inventor, when

this dire possibility had been hinted at. "I believe the persons who

were responsible for the accident are afraid to reveal his whereabouts

until he recovers from possible injuries. You'll see! Mr. Nestor will

come back safe!"

And, somehow, though her mother was skeptical, Mary believed what Tom