 being in town, I am certain, from something she said herself; and

 yet it would seem, by her manner of talking, as if she wanted to

 persuade herself that he is really partial to Miss Darcy. I cannot

 understand it. If I were not afraid of judging harshly, I should be

 almost tempted to say, that there is a strong appearance of

 duplicity in all this. I will endeavour to banish every painful

 thought, and think only of what will make me happy, your affection,

 and the invariable kindness of my dear uncle and aunt. Let me hear

 from you very soon. Miss Bingley said something of his never

 returning to Netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not

 with any certainty. We had better not mention it. I am extremely

 glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at

 Hunsford. Pray go to see them, with Sir William and Maria. I am

 sure you will be very comfortable there.

“Yours, etc.”

This letter gave Elizabeth some pain; but her spirits returned, as she

considered that Jane would no longer be duped, by the sister at least.

All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over. She would not

even wish for any renewal of his attentions. His character sunk on every

review of it; and, as a punishment for him, as well as a possible

advantage to Jane, she seriously hoped he might really soon marry Mr.

Darcy’s sister, as, by Wickham’s account, she would make him abundantly

regret what he had thrown away.

Mrs. Gardiner about this time reminded Elizabeth of her promise

concerning that gentleman, and required information; and Elizabeth had

such to send as might rather give contentment to her aunt than to

herself. His apparent partiality had subsided, his attentions were over,

he was the admirer of some one else. Elizabeth was watchful enough to

see it all, but she could see it and write of it without material pain.

Her heart had been but slightly touched, and her vanity was satisfied

with believing that _she_ would have been his only choice, had fortune

permitted it. The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most

remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was now rendering himself

agreeable; but Elizabeth, less clear-sighted perhaps in this case than

in Charlotte’s, did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence.

Nothing, on the contrary, could be more natural; and, while able to

suppose that it cost him a few struggles to relinquish her, she was

ready to allow it a wise and desirable measure for both, and could very

sincerely wish him happy.

All this was acknowledged to Mrs. Gardiner; and, after relating the

circumstances, she thus went on:--“I am now convinced, my dear aunt,

that I have never been much in love; for had I really experienced that

pure and elevating passion, I should at present detest his very name,

and wish him all manner of evil. But my feelings are not only cordial

towards _him_, they are even impartial towards Miss King. I cannot find

out that I hate her at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to think

her a very good sort of girl. There can be no love in all this. My

watchfulness has been effectual; and though I should certainly be a more

interesting object to all my acquaintance, were I distractedly in love

with him, I cannot say that I regret my comparative insignificance.

Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly. Kitty and Lydia take

his defection much more to heart than I do. They are young in the ways

of the world, and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that

handsome young men must have something to live on as well as the

plain.”

[Illustration:

 “On the Stairs”

]

CHAPTER XXVII.

[Illustration]

With no greater events than these in the Longbourn family, and otherwise

diversified by little beyond the walks to Meryton, sometimes dirty and

sometimes cold, did January and February pass away. March was to take

Elizabeth to Hunsford. She had not at first thought very seriously of

going thither; but Charlotte, she soon found, was depending on the

plan, and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater

pleasure as well as greater certainty. Absence had increased her desire

of seeing Charlotte again, and weakened her disgust of Mr. Collins.

There was novelty in the scheme; and as, with such a mother and such

uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little change

was not unwelcome for its own sake. The journey would, moreover, give

her a peep at Jane; and, in short, as the time drew near, she would have

been very sorry for any delay. Everything, however, went on smoothly,