bringing the dogs with us, began our search of the house. We found

nothing throughout except dust in extraordinary proportions, and all

untouched save for my own footsteps when I had made my first visit.

Never once did the dogs exhibit any symptom of uneasiness, and even when

we returned to the chapel they frisked about as though they had been

rabbit-hunting in a summer wood.

The morning was quickening in the east when we emerged from the front.

Dr. Van Helsing had taken the key of the hall-door from the bunch, and

locked the door in orthodox fashion, putting the key into his pocket

when he had done.

“So far,” he said, “our night has been eminently successful. No harm has

come to us such as I feared might be and yet we have ascertained how

many boxes are missing. More than all do I rejoice that this, our

first--and perhaps our most difficult and dangerous--step has been

accomplished without the bringing thereinto our most sweet Madam Mina or

troubling her waking or sleeping thoughts with sights and sounds and

smells of horror which she might never forget. One lesson, too, we have

learned, if it be allowable to argue _a particulari_: that the brute

beasts which are to the Count’s command are yet themselves not amenable

to his spiritual power; for look, these rats that would come to his

call, just as from his castle top he summon the wolves to your going and

to that poor mother’s cry, though they come to him, they run pell-mell

from the so little dogs of my friend Arthur. We have other matters

before us, other dangers, other fears; and that monster--he has not used

his power over the brute world for the only or the last time to-night.

So be it that he has gone elsewhere. Good! It has given us opportunity

to cry ‘check’ in some ways in this chess game, which we play for the

stake of human souls. And now let us go home. The dawn is close at hand,

and we have reason to be content with our first night’s work. It may be

ordained that we have many nights and days to follow, if full of peril;

but we must go on, and from no danger shall we shrink.”

The house was silent when we got back, save for some poor creature who

was screaming away in one of the distant wards, and a low, moaning sound

from Renfield’s room. The poor wretch was doubtless torturing himself,

after the manner of the insane, with needless thoughts of pain.

I came tiptoe into our own room, and found Mina asleep, breathing so

softly that I had to put my ear down to hear it. She looks paler than

usual. I hope the meeting to-night has not upset her. I am truly

thankful that she is to be left out of our future work, and even of our

deliberations. It is too great a strain for a woman to bear. I did not

think so at first, but I know better now. Therefore I am glad that it is

settled. There may be things which would frighten her to hear; and yet

to conceal them from her might be worse than to tell her if once she

suspected that there was any concealment. Henceforth our work is to be a

sealed book to her, till at least such time as we can tell her that all

is finished, and the earth free from a monster of the nether world. I

daresay it will be difficult to begin to keep silence after such

confidence as ours; but I must be resolute, and to-morrow I shall keep

dark over to-night’s doings, and shall refuse to speak of anything that

has happened. I rest on the sofa, so as not to disturb her.

 * * * * *

_1 October, later._--I suppose it was natural that we should have all

overslept ourselves, for the day was a busy one, and the night had no

rest at all. Even Mina must have felt its exhaustion, for though I slept

till the sun was high, I was awake before her, and had to call two or

three times before she awoke. Indeed, she was so sound asleep that for a

few seconds she did not recognize me, but looked at me with a sort of

blank terror, as one looks who has been waked out of a bad dream. She

complained a little of being tired, and I let her rest till later in the

day. We now know of twenty-one boxes having been removed, and if it be

that several were taken in any of these removals we may be able to trace

them all. Such will, of course, immensely simplify our labour, and the

sooner the matter is attended to the better. I shall look up Thomas

Snelling to-day.

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_1 October._--It was towards noon when I was awakened by the Professor

walking into my room. He was more jolly and cheerful than usual, and it

is quite evident that last night’s work has helped to take some of the

brooding weight off his mind. After going over the adventure of the