exhausting other modes of amusement, now thronged about Hester Prynne

with rude and boorish intrusiveness. Unscrupulous as it was, however,

it could not bring them nearer than a circuit of several yards. At

that distance they accordingly stood, fixed there by the centrifugal

force of the repugnance which the mystic symbol inspired. The whole

gang of sailors, likewise, observing the press of spectators, and

learning the purport of the scarlet letter, came and thrust their

sunburnt and desperado-looking faces into the ring. Even the Indians

were affected by a sort of cold shadow of the white man’s curiosity,

and, gliding through the crowd, fastened their snake-like black eyes

on Hester’s bosom; conceiving, perhaps, that the wearer of this

brilliantly embroidered badge must needs be a personage of high

dignity among her people. Lastly the inhabitants of the town (their

own interest in this worn-out subject languidly reviving itself, by

sympathy with what they saw others feel) lounged idly to the same

quarter, and tormented Hester Prynne, perhaps more than all the rest,

with their cool, well-acquainted gaze at her familiar shame. Hester

saw and recognized the selfsame faces of that group of matrons, who

had awaited her forthcoming from the prison-door, seven years ago; all

save one, the youngest and only compassionate among them, whose

burial-robe she had since made. At the final hour, when she was so

soon to fling aside the burning letter, it had strangely become the

centre of more remark and excitement, and was thus made to sear her

breast more painfully, than at any time since the first day she put it

on.

While Hester stood in that magic circle of ignominy, where the cunning

cruelty of her sentence seemed to have fixed her forever, the

admirable preacher was looking down from the sacred pulpit upon an

audience whose very inmost spirits had yielded to his control. The

sainted minister in the church! The woman of the scarlet letter in the

market-place! What imagination would have been irreverent enough to

surmise that the same scorching stigma was on them both!

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 XXIII.

 THE REVELATION OF THE SCARLET LETTER.

The eloquent voice, on which the souls of the listening audience had

been borne aloft as on the swelling waves of the sea, at length came

to a pause. There was a momentary silence, profound as what should

follow the utterance of oracles. Then ensued a murmur and half-hushed

tumult; as if the auditors, released from the high spell that had

transported them into the region of another’s mind, were returning

into themselves, with all their awe and wonder still heavy on them. In

a moment more, the crowd began to gush forth from the doors of the

church. Now that there was an end, they needed other breath, more fit

to support the gross and earthly life into which they relapsed, than

that atmosphere which the preacher had converted into words of flame,

and had burdened with the rich fragrance of his thought.

In the open air their rapture broke into speech. The street and the

market-place absolutely babbled, from side to side, with applauses of

the minister. His hearers could not rest until they had told one

another of what each knew better than he could tell or hear. According

to their united testimony, never had man spoken in so wise, so high,

and so holy a spirit, as he that spake this day; nor had inspiration

ever breathed through mortal lips more evidently than it did through

his. Its influence could be seen, as it were, descending upon him, and

possessing him, and continually lifting him out of the written

discourse that lay before him, and filling him with ideas that must

have been as marvellous to himself as to his audience. His subject, it

appeared, had been the relation between the Deity and the communities

of mankind, with a special reference to the New England which they

were here planting in the wilderness. And, as he drew towards the

close, a spirit as of prophecy had come upon him, constraining him to

its purpose as mightily as the old prophets of Israel were

constrained; only with this difference, that, whereas the Jewish seers

had denounced judgments and ruin on their country, it was his mission

to foretell a high and glorious destiny for the newly gathered people

of the Lord. But, throughout it all, and through the whole discourse,

there had been a certain deep, sad undertone of pathos, which could

not be interpreted otherwise than as the natural regret of one soon to

pass away. Yes; their minister whom they so loved—and who so loved

them all, that he could not depart heavenward without a sigh—had the

foreboding of untimely death upon him, and would soon leave them in

their tears! This idea of his transitory stay on earth gave the last

emphasis to the effect which the preacher had produced; it was as if

an angel, in his passage to the skies, had shaken his bright wings