animated. Mrs. Collins knew not what to make of him. Colonel

Fitzwilliam’s occasionally laughing at his stupidity proved that he was

generally different, which her own knowledge of him could not have told

her; and as she would have liked to believe this change the effect of

love, and the object of that love her friend Eliza, she set herself

seriously to work to find it out: she watched him whenever they were at

Rosings, and whenever he came to Hunsford; but without much success. He

certainly looked at her friend a great deal, but the expression of that

look was disputable. It was an earnest, steadfast gaze, but she often

doubted whether there were much admiration in it, and sometimes it

seemed nothing but absence of mind.

She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth the possibility of his

being partial to her, but Elizabeth always laughed at the idea; and Mrs.

Collins did not think it right to press the subject, from the danger of

raising expectations which might only end in disappointment; for in her

opinion it admitted not of a doubt, that all her friend’s dislike would

vanish, if she could suppose him to be in her power.

In her kind schemes for Elizabeth, she sometimes planned her marrying

Colonel Fitzwilliam. He was, beyond comparison, the pleasantest man: he

certainly admired her, and his situation in life was most eligible; but,

to counterbalance these advantages, Mr. Darcy had considerable patronage

in the church, and his cousin could have none at all.

[Illustration: “On looking up”]

CHAPTER XXXIII.

[Illustration]

More than once did Elizabeth, in her ramble within the park,

unexpectedly meet Mr. Darcy. She felt all the perverseness of the

mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought; and, to

prevent its ever happening again, took care to inform him, at first,

that it was a favourite haunt of hers. How it could occur a second time,

therefore, was very odd! Yet it did, and even the third. It seemed like

wilful ill-nature, or a voluntary penance; for on these occasions it was

not merely a few formal inquiries and an awkward pause and then away,

but he actually thought it necessary to turn back and walk with her. He

never said a great deal, nor did she give herself the trouble of talking

or of listening much; but it struck her in the course of their third

encounter that he was asking some odd unconnected questions--about her

pleasure in being at Hunsford, her love of solitary walks, and her

opinion of Mr. and Mrs. Collins’s happiness; and that in speaking of

Rosings, and her not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to

expect that whenever she came into Kent again she would be staying

_there_ too. His words seemed to imply it. Could he have Colonel

Fitzwilliam in his thoughts? She supposed, if he meant anything, he must

mean an allusion to what might arise in that quarter. It distressed her

a little, and she was quite glad to find herself at the gate in the

pales opposite the Parsonage.

She was engaged one day, as she walked, in re-perusing Jane’s last

letter, and dwelling on some passages which proved that Jane had not

written in spirits, when, instead of being again surprised by Mr. Darcy,

she saw, on looking up, that Colonel Fitzwilliam was meeting her.

Putting away the letter immediately, and forcing a smile, she said,--

“I did not know before that you ever walked this way.”

“I have been making the tour of the park,” he replied, “as I generally

do every year, and intended to close it with a call at the Parsonage.

Are you going much farther?”

“No, I should have turned in a moment.”

And accordingly she did turn, and they walked towards the Parsonage

together.

“Do you certainly leave Kent on Saturday?” said she.

“Yes--if Darcy does not put it off again. But I am at his disposal. He

arranges the business just as he pleases.”

“And if not able to please himself in the arrangement, he has at least

great pleasure in the power of choice. I do not know anybody who seems

more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than Mr. Darcy.”

“He likes to have his own way very well,” replied Colonel Fitzwilliam.

“But so we all do. It is only that he has better means of having it than

many others, because he is rich, and many others are poor. I speak

feelingly. A younger son, you know, must be inured to self-denial and

dependence.”

“In my opinion, the younger son of an earl can know very little of

either. Now, seriously, what have you ever known of self-denial and

dependence? When have you been prevented by want of money from going

wherever you chose or procuring anything you had a fancy for?”

“These are home questions--and perhaps I cannot say that I have

experienced many hardships of that nature. But in matters of greater