and was finally settled according to Charlotte’s first sketch. She was

to accompany Sir William and his second daughter. The improvement of

spending a night in London was added in time, and the plan became as

perfect as plan could be.

The only pain was in leaving her father, who would certainly miss her,

and who, when it came to the point, so little liked her going, that he

told her to write to him, and almost promised to answer her letter.

The farewell between herself and Mr. Wickham was perfectly friendly; on

his side even more. His present pursuit could not make him forget that

Elizabeth had been the first to excite and to deserve his attention, the

first to listen and to pity, the first to be admired; and in his manner

of bidding her adieu, wishing her every enjoyment, reminding her of what

she was to expect in Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and trusting their

opinion of her--their opinion of everybody--would always coincide, there

was a solicitude, an interest, which she felt must ever attach her to

him with a most sincere regard; and she parted from him convinced, that,

whether married or single, he must always be her model of the amiable

and pleasing.

Her fellow-travellers the next day were not of a kind to make her think

him less agreeable. Sir William Lucas, and his daughter Maria, a

good-humoured girl, but as empty-headed as himself, had nothing to say

that could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much

delight as the rattle of the chaise. Elizabeth loved absurdities, but

she had known Sir William’s too long. He could tell her nothing new of

the wonders of his presentation and knighthood; and his civilities were

worn out, like his information.

It was a journey of only twenty-four miles, and they began it so early

as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon. As they drove to Mr. Gardiner’s

door, Jane was at a drawing-room window watching their arrival: when

they entered the passage, she was there to welcome them, and Elizabeth,

looking earnestly in her face, was pleased to see it healthful and

lovely as ever. On the stairs were a troop of little boys and girls,

whose eagerness for their cousin’s appearance would not allow them to

wait in the drawing-room, and whose shyness, as they had not seen her

for a twelvemonth, prevented their coming lower. All was joy and

kindness. The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and

shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.

Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt. Their first subject was her

sister; and she was more grieved than astonished to hear, in reply to

her minute inquiries, that though Jane always struggled to support her

spirits, there were periods of dejection. It was reasonable, however, to

hope that they would not continue long. Mrs. Gardiner gave her the

particulars also of Miss Bingley’s visit in Gracechurch Street, and

repeated conversations occurring at different times between Jane and

herself, which proved that the former had, from her heart, given up the

acquaintance.

Mrs. Gardiner then rallied her niece on Wickham’s desertion, and

complimented her on bearing it so well.

“But, my dear Elizabeth,” she added, “what sort of girl is Miss King? I

should be sorry to think our friend mercenary.”

“Pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs,

between the mercenary and the prudent motive? Where does discretion end,

and avarice begin? Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me,

because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get a

girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is

mercenary.”

“If you will only tell me what sort of girl Miss King is, I shall know

what to think.”

“She is a very good kind of girl, I believe. I know no harm of her.”

“But he paid her not the smallest attention till her grandfather’s death

made her mistress of this fortune?”

“No--why should he? If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_

affections, because I had no money, what occasion could there be for

making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally

poor?”

“But there seems indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her so

soon after this event.”

“A man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant

decorums which other people may observe. If _she_ does not object to it,

why should _we_?”

“_Her_ not objecting does not justify _him_. It only shows her being

deficient in something herself--sense or feeling.”

“Well,” cried Elizabeth, “have it as you choose. _He_ shall be

mercenary, and _she_ shall be foolish.”

“No, Lizzy, that is what I do _not_ choose. I should be sorry, you know,

to think ill of a young man who has lived so long in Derbyshire.”

“Oh, if that is all, I have a very poor opinion of young men who live in