half-smothered child. The women closed round, whilst I was aghast with

horror; but as I looked they disappeared, and with them the dreadful

bag. There was no door near them, and they could not have passed me

without my noticing. They simply seemed to fade into the rays of the

moonlight and pass out through the window, for I could see outside the

dim, shadowy forms for a moment before they entirely faded away.

Then the horror overcame me, and I sank down unconscious.

CHAPTER IV

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL--_continued_

I awoke in my own bed. If it be that I had not dreamt, the Count must

have carried me here. I tried to satisfy myself on the subject, but

could not arrive at any unquestionable result. To be sure, there were

certain small evidences, such as that my clothes were folded and laid by

in a manner which was not my habit. My watch was still unwound, and I am

rigorously accustomed to wind it the last thing before going to bed, and

many such details. But these things are no proof, for they may have been

evidences that my mind was not as usual, and, from some cause or

another, I had certainly been much upset. I must watch for proof. Of one

thing I am glad: if it was that the Count carried me here and undressed

me, he must have been hurried in his task, for my pockets are intact. I

am sure this diary would have been a mystery to him which he would not

have brooked. He would have taken or destroyed it. As I look round this

room, although it has been to me so full of fear, it is now a sort of

sanctuary, for nothing can be more dreadful than those awful women, who

were--who _are_--waiting to suck my blood.

 * * * * *

_18 May._--I have been down to look at that room again in daylight, for

I _must_ know the truth. When I got to the doorway at the top of the

stairs I found it closed. It had been so forcibly driven against the

jamb that part of the woodwork was splintered. I could see that the bolt

of the lock had not been shot, but the door is fastened from the inside.

I fear it was no dream, and must act on this surmise.

 * * * * *

_19 May._--I am surely in the toils. Last night the Count asked me in

the suavest tones to write three letters, one saying that my work here

was nearly done, and that I should start for home within a few days,

another that I was starting on the next morning from the time of the

letter, and the third that I had left the castle and arrived at

Bistritz. I would fain have rebelled, but felt that in the present state

of things it would be madness to quarrel openly with the Count whilst I

am so absolutely in his power; and to refuse would be to excite his

suspicion and to arouse his anger. He knows that I know too much, and

that I must not live, lest I be dangerous to him; my only chance is to

prolong my opportunities. Something may occur which will give me a

chance to escape. I saw in his eyes something of that gathering wrath

which was manifest when he hurled that fair woman from him. He explained

to me that posts were few and uncertain, and that my writing now would

ensure ease of mind to my friends; and he assured me with so much

impressiveness that he would countermand the later letters, which would

be held over at Bistritz until due time in case chance would admit of my

prolonging my stay, that to oppose him would have been to create new

suspicion. I therefore pretended to fall in with his views, and asked

him what dates I should put on the letters. He calculated a minute, and

then said:--

“The first should be June 12, the second June 19, and the third June

29.”

I know now the span of my life. God help me!

 * * * * *

_28 May._--There is a chance of escape, or at any rate of being able to

send word home. A band of Szgany have come to the castle, and are

encamped in the courtyard. These Szgany are gipsies; I have notes of

them in my book. They are peculiar to this part of the world, though

allied to the ordinary gipsies all the world over. There are thousands

of them in Hungary and Transylvania, who are almost outside all law.

They attach themselves as a rule to some great noble or _boyar_, and

call themselves by his name. They are fearless and without religion,

save superstition, and they talk only their own varieties of the Romany

tongue.

I shall write some letters home, and shall try to get them to have them