not very different from ours except that, according to Philips, blue

and violet were as black to them. It is commonly supposed that they

communicated by sounds and tentacular gesticulations; this is asserted,

for instance, in the able but hastily compiled pamphlet (written

evidently by someone not an eye-witness of Martian actions) to which I

have already alluded, and which, so far, has been the chief source of

information concerning them. Now no surviving human being saw so much

of the Martians in action as I did. I take no credit to myself for an

accident, but the fact is so. And I assert that I watched them closely

time after time, and that I have seen four, five, and (once) six of

them sluggishly performing the most elaborately complicated operations

together without either sound or gesture. Their peculiar hooting

invariably preceded feeding; it had no modulation, and was, I believe,

in no sense a signal, but merely the expiration of air preparatory to

the suctional operation. I have a certain claim to at least an

elementary knowledge of psychology, and in this matter I am

convinced—as firmly as I am convinced of anything—that the Martians

interchanged thoughts without any physical intermediation. And I have

been convinced of this in spite of strong preconceptions. Before the

Martian invasion, as an occasional reader here or there may remember, I

had written with some little vehemence against the telepathic theory.

The Martians wore no clothing. Their conceptions of ornament and

decorum were necessarily different from ours; and not only were they

evidently much less sensible of changes of temperature than we are, but

changes of pressure do not seem to have affected their health at all

seriously. Yet though they wore no clothing, it was in the other

artificial additions to their bodily resources that their great

superiority over man lay. We men, with our bicycles and road-skates,

our Lilienthal soaring-machines, our guns and sticks and so forth, are

just in the beginning of the evolution that the Martians have worked

out. They have become practically mere brains, wearing different bodies

according to their needs just as men wear suits of clothes and take a

bicycle in a hurry or an umbrella in the wet. And of their appliances,

perhaps nothing is more wonderful to a man than the curious fact that

what is the dominant feature of almost all human devices in mechanism

is absent—the _wheel_ is absent; among all the things they brought to

earth there is no trace or suggestion of their use of wheels. One would

have at least expected it in locomotion. And in this connection it is

curious to remark that even on this earth Nature has never hit upon the

wheel, or has preferred other expedients to its development. And not

only did the Martians either not know of (which is incredible), or

abstain from, the wheel, but in their apparatus singularly little use

is made of the fixed pivot or relatively fixed pivot, with circular

motions thereabout confined to one plane. Almost all the joints of the

machinery present a complicated system of sliding parts moving over

small but beautifully curved friction bearings. And while upon this

matter of detail, it is remarkable that the long leverages of their

machines are in most cases actuated by a sort of sham musculature of

the disks in an elastic sheath; these disks become polarised and drawn

closely and powerfully together when traversed by a current of

electricity. In this way the curious parallelism to animal motions,

which was so striking and disturbing to the human beholder, was

attained. Such quasi-muscles abounded in the crablike handling-machine

which, on my first peeping out of the slit, I watched unpacking the

cylinder. It seemed infinitely more alive than the actual Martians

lying beyond it in the sunset light, panting, stirring ineffectual

tentacles, and moving feebly after their vast journey across space.

While I was still watching their sluggish motions in the sunlight, and

noting each strange detail of their form, the curate reminded me of his

presence by pulling violently at my arm. I turned to a scowling face,

and silent, eloquent lips. He wanted the slit, which permitted only one

of us to peep through; and so I had to forego watching them for a time

while he enjoyed that privilege.

When I looked again, the busy handling-machine had already put together

several of the pieces of apparatus it had taken out of the cylinder

into a shape having an unmistakable likeness to its own; and down on

the left a busy little digging mechanism had come into view, emitting

jets of green vapour and working its way round the pit, excavating and

embanking in a methodical and discriminating manner. This it was which

had caused the regular beating noise, and the rhythmic shocks that had

kept our ruinous refuge quivering. It piped and whistled as it worked.

So far as I could see, the thing was without a directing Martian at

all.

III.