on, of a deeper antipathy in the breast of the latter than he was

willing to acknowledge to himself. For, as it was impossible to assign

a reason for such distrust and abhorrence, so Mr. Dimmesdale,

conscious that the poison of one morbid spot was infecting his heart’s

entire substance, attributed all his presentiments to no other cause.

He took himself to task for his bad sympathies in reference to Roger

Chillingworth, disregarded the lesson that he should have drawn from

them, and did his best to root them out. Unable to accomplish this, he

nevertheless, as a matter of principle, continued his habits of social

familiarity with the old man, and thus gave him constant opportunities

for perfecting the purpose to which—poor, forlorn creature that he

was, and more wretched than his victim—the avenger had devoted

himself.

While thus suffering under bodily disease, and gnawed and tortured by

some black trouble of the soul, and given over to the machinations of

his deadliest enemy, the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale had achieved a

brilliant popularity in his sacred office. He won it, indeed, in great

part, by his sorrows. His intellectual gifts, his moral perceptions,

his power of experiencing and communicating emotion, were kept in a

state of preternatural activity by the prick and anguish of his daily

life. His fame, though still on its upward slope, already overshadowed

the soberer reputations of his fellow-clergymen, eminent as several of

them were. There were scholars among them, who had spent more years in

acquiring abstruse lore, connected with the divine profession, than

Mr. Dimmesdale had lived; and who might well, therefore, be more

profoundly versed in such solid and valuable attainments than their

youthful brother. There were men, too, of a sturdier texture of mind

than his, and endowed with a far greater share of shrewd, hard, iron,

or granite understanding; which, duly mingled with a fair proportion

of doctrinal ingredient, constitutes a highly respectable,

efficacious, and unamiable variety of the clerical species. There were

others, again, true saintly fathers, whose faculties had been

elaborated by weary toil among their books, and by patient thought,

and etherealized, moreover, by spiritual communications with the

better world, into which their purity of life had almost introduced

these holy personages, with their garments of mortality still clinging

to them. All that they lacked was the gift that descended upon the

chosen disciples at Pentecost, in tongues of flame; symbolizing, it

would seem, not the power of speech in foreign and unknown languages,

but that of addressing the whole human brotherhood in the heart’s

native language. These fathers, otherwise so apostolic, lacked

Heaven’s last and rarest attestation of their office, the Tongue of

Flame. They would have vainly sought—had they ever dreamed of

seeking—to express the highest truths through the humblest medium of

familiar words and images. Their voices came down, afar and

indistinctly, from the upper heights where they habitually dwelt.

[Illustration: The Virgins of the Church]

Not improbably, it was to this latter class of men that Mr.

Dimmesdale, by many of his traits of character, naturally belonged. To

the high mountain-peaks of faith and sanctity he would have climbed,

had not the tendency been thwarted by the burden, whatever it might

be, of crime or anguish, beneath which it was his doom to totter. It

kept him down, on a level with the lowest; him, the man of ethereal

attributes, whose voice the angels might else have listened to and

answered! But this very burden it was, that gave him sympathies so

intimate with the sinful brotherhood of mankind; so that his heart

vibrated in unison with theirs, and received their pain into itself,

and sent its own throb of pain through a thousand other hearts, in

gushes of sad, persuasive eloquence. Oftenest persuasive, but

sometimes terrible! The people knew not the power that moved them

thus. They deemed the young clergyman a miracle of holiness. They

fancied him the mouthpiece of Heaven’s messages of wisdom, and rebuke,

and love. In their eyes, the very ground on which he trod was

sanctified. The virgins of his church grew pale around him, victims of

a passion so imbued with religious sentiment that they imagined it to

be all religion, and brought it openly, in their white bosoms, as

their most acceptable sacrifice before the altar. The aged members of

his flock, beholding Mr. Dimmesdale’s frame so feeble, while they were

themselves so rugged in their infirmity, believed that he would go

heavenward before them, and enjoined it upon their children, that

their old bones should be buried close to their young pastor’s holy

grave. And, all this time, perchance, when poor Mr. Dimmesdale was

thinking of his grave, he questioned with himself whether the grass

would ever grow on it, because an accursed thing must there be buried!

It is inconceivable, the agony with which this public veneration