Byfleet was in a tumult; people packing, and a score of hussars, some

of them dismounted, some on horseback, were hunting them about. Three

or four black government waggons, with crosses in white circles, and an

old omnibus, among other vehicles, were being loaded in the village

street. There were scores of people, most of them sufficiently

sabbatical to have assumed their best clothes. The soldiers were having

the greatest difficulty in making them realise the gravity of their

position. We saw one shrivelled old fellow with a huge box and a score

or more of flower pots containing orchids, angrily expostulating with

the corporal who would leave them behind. I stopped and gripped his

arm.

“Do you know what’s over there?” I said, pointing at the pine tops that

hid the Martians.

“Eh?” said he, turning. “I was explainin’ these is vallyble.”

“Death!” I shouted. “Death is coming! Death!” and leaving him to digest

that if he could, I hurried on after the artillery-man. At the corner I

looked back. The soldier had left him, and he was still standing by his

box, with the pots of orchids on the lid of it, and staring vaguely

over the trees.

No one in Weybridge could tell us where the headquarters were

established; the whole place was in such confusion as I had never seen

in any town before. Carts, carriages everywhere, the most astonishing

miscellany of conveyances and horseflesh. The respectable inhabitants

of the place, men in golf and boating costumes, wives prettily dressed,

were packing, river-side loafers energetically helping, children

excited, and, for the most part, highly delighted at this astonishing

variation of their Sunday experiences. In the midst of it all the

worthy vicar was very pluckily holding an early celebration, and his

bell was jangling out above the excitement.

I and the artilleryman, seated on the step of the drinking fountain,

made a very passable meal upon what we had brought with us. Patrols of

soldiers—here no longer hussars, but grenadiers in white—were warning

people to move now or to take refuge in their cellars as soon as the

firing began. We saw as we crossed the railway bridge that a growing

crowd of people had assembled in and about the railway station, and the

swarming platform was piled with boxes and packages. The ordinary

traffic had been stopped, I believe, in order to allow of the passage

of troops and guns to Chertsey, and I have heard since that a savage

struggle occurred for places in the special trains that were put on at

a later hour.

We remained at Weybridge until midday, and at that hour we found

ourselves at the place near Shepperton Lock where the Wey and Thames

join. Part of the time we spent helping two old women to pack a little

cart. The Wey has a treble mouth, and at this point boats are to be

hired, and there was a ferry across the river. On the Shepperton side

was an inn with a lawn, and beyond that the tower of Shepperton

Church—it has been replaced by a spire—rose above the trees.

Here we found an excited and noisy crowd of fugitives. As yet the

flight had not grown to a panic, but there were already far more people

than all the boats going to and fro could enable to cross. People came

panting along under heavy burdens; one husband and wife were even

carrying a small outhouse door between them, with some of their

household goods piled thereon. One man told us he meant to try to get

away from Shepperton station.

There was a lot of shouting, and one man was even jesting. The idea

people seemed to have here was that the Martians were simply formidable

human beings, who might attack and sack the town, to be certainly

destroyed in the end. Every now and then people would glance nervously

across the Wey, at the meadows towards Chertsey, but everything over

there was still.

Across the Thames, except just where the boats landed, everything was

quiet, in vivid contrast with the Surrey side. The people who landed

there from the boats went tramping off down the lane. The big ferryboat

had just made a journey. Three or four soldiers stood on the lawn of

the inn, staring and jesting at the fugitives, without offering to

help. The inn was closed, as it was now within prohibited hours.

“What’s that?” cried a boatman, and “Shut up, you fool!” said a man

near me to a yelping dog. Then the sound came again, this time from the

direction of Chertsey, a muffled thud—the sound of a gun.