him to receive, if possible before sunrise so as to avoid customs, a box

which would arrive at Galatz in the _Czarina Catherine_. This he was to

give in charge to a certain Petrof Skinsky, who dealt with the Slovaks

who traded down the river to the port. He had been paid for his work by

an English bank note, which had been duly cashed for gold at the Danube

International Bank. When Skinsky had come to him, he had taken him to

the ship and handed over the box, so as to save porterage. That was all

he knew.

We then sought for Skinsky, but were unable to find him. One of his

neighbours, who did not seem to bear him any affection, said that he had

gone away two days before, no one knew whither. This was corroborated by

his landlord, who had received by messenger the key of the house

together with the rent due, in English money. This had been between ten

and eleven o’clock last night. We were at a standstill again.

Whilst we were talking one came running and breathlessly gasped out that

the body of Skinsky had been found inside the wall of the churchyard of

St. Peter, and that the throat had been torn open as if by some wild

animal. Those we had been speaking with ran off to see the horror, the

women crying out “This is the work of a Slovak!” We hurried away lest we

should have been in some way drawn into the affair, and so detained.

As we came home we could arrive at no definite conclusion. We were all

convinced that the box was on its way, by water, to somewhere; but where

that might be we would have to discover. With heavy hearts we came home

to the hotel to Mina.

When we met together, the first thing was to consult as to taking Mina

again into our confidence. Things are getting desperate, and it is at

least a chance, though a hazardous one. As a preliminary step, I was

released from my promise to her.

_Mina Harker’s Journal._

_30 October, evening._--They were so tired and worn out and dispirited

that there was nothing to be done till they had some rest; so I asked

them all to lie down for half an hour whilst I should enter everything

up to the moment. I feel so grateful to the man who invented the

“Traveller’s” typewriter, and to Mr. Morris for getting this one for

me. I should have felt quite astray doing the work if I had to write

with a pen....

It is all done; poor dear, dear Jonathan, what he must have suffered,

what must he be suffering now. He lies on the sofa hardly seeming to

breathe, and his whole body appears in collapse. His brows are knit; his

face is drawn with pain. Poor fellow, maybe he is thinking, and I can

see his face all wrinkled up with the concentration of his thoughts. Oh!

if I could only help at all.... I shall do what I can.

I have asked Dr. Van Helsing, and he has got me all the papers that I

have not yet seen.... Whilst they are resting, I shall go over all

carefully, and perhaps I may arrive at some conclusion. I shall try to

follow the Professor’s example, and think without prejudice on the facts

before me....

 * * * * *

I do believe that under God’s providence I have made a discovery. I

shall get the maps and look over them....

 * * * * *

I am more than ever sure that I am right. My new conclusion is ready, so

I shall get our party together and read it. They can judge it; it is

well to be accurate, and every minute is precious.

_Mina Harker’s Memorandum._

(Entered in her Journal.)

_Ground of inquiry._--Count Dracula’s problem is to get back to his own

place.

(_a_) He must be _brought back_ by some one. This is evident; for had he

power to move himself as he wished he could go either as man, or wolf,

or bat, or in some other way. He evidently fears discovery or

interference, in the state of helplessness in which he must be--confined

as he is between dawn and sunset in his wooden box.

(_b_) _How is he to be taken?_--Here a process of exclusions may help

us. By road, by rail, by water?

1. _By Road._--There are endless difficulties, especially in leaving the

city.

(_x_) There are people; and people are curious, and investigate. A hint,

a surmise, a doubt as to what might be in the box, would destroy him.

(_y_) There are, or there may be, customs and octroi officers to pass.