Instinctively, with the dawn coming, I turned to Madam Mina, intending

to hypnotise her; but she lay in a deep and sudden sleep, from which I

could not wake her. I tried to hypnotise through her sleep, but she made

no response, none at all; and the day broke. I fear yet to stir. I have

made my fire and have seen the horses, they are all dead. To-day I have

much to do here, and I keep waiting till the sun is up high; for there

may be places where I must go, where that sunlight, though snow and mist

obscure it, will be to me a safety.

I will strengthen me with breakfast, and then I will to my terrible

work. Madam Mina still sleeps; and, God be thanked! she is calm in her

sleep....

_Jonathan Harker’s Journal._

_4 November, evening._--The accident to the launch has been a terrible

thing for us. Only for it we should have overtaken the boat long ago;

and by now my dear Mina would have been free. I fear to think of her,

off on the wolds near that horrid place. We have got horses, and we

follow on the track. I note this whilst Godalming is getting ready. We

have our arms. The Szgany must look out if they mean fight. Oh, if only

Morris and Seward were with us. We must only hope! If I write no more

Good-bye, Mina! God bless and keep you.

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_5 November._--With the dawn we saw the body of Szgany before us dashing

away from the river with their leiter-wagon. They surrounded it in a

cluster, and hurried along as though beset. The snow is falling lightly

and there is a strange excitement in the air. It may be our own

feelings, but the depression is strange. Far off I hear the howling of

wolves; the snow brings them down from the mountains, and there are

dangers to all of us, and from all sides. The horses are nearly ready,

and we are soon off. We ride to death of some one. God alone knows who,

or where, or what, or when, or how it may be....

_Dr. Van Helsing’s Memorandum._

_5 November, afternoon._--I am at least sane. Thank God for that mercy

at all events, though the proving it has been dreadful. When I left

Madam Mina sleeping within the Holy circle, I took my way to the castle.

The blacksmith hammer which I took in the carriage from Veresti was

useful; though the doors were all open I broke them off the rusty

hinges, lest some ill-intent or ill-chance should close them, so that

being entered I might not get out. Jonathan’s bitter experience served

me here. By memory of his diary I found my way to the old chapel, for I

knew that here my work lay. The air was oppressive; it seemed as if

there was some sulphurous fume, which at times made me dizzy. Either

there was a roaring in my ears or I heard afar off the howl of wolves.

Then I bethought me of my dear Madam Mina, and I was in terrible plight.

The dilemma had me between his horns.

Her, I had not dare to take into this place, but left safe from the

Vampire in that Holy circle; and yet even there would be the wolf! I

resolve me that my work lay here, and that as to the wolves we must

submit, if it were God’s will. At any rate it was only death and

freedom beyond. So did I choose for her. Had it but been for myself the

choice had been easy, the maw of the wolf were better to rest in than

the grave of the Vampire! So I make my choice to go on with my work.

I knew that there were at least three graves to find--graves that are

inhabit; so I search, and search, and I find one of them. She lay in her

Vampire sleep, so full of life and voluptuous beauty that I shudder as

though I have come to do murder. Ah, I doubt not that in old time, when

such things were, many a man who set forth to do such a task as mine,

found at the last his heart fail him, and then his nerve. So he delay,

and delay, and delay, till the mere beauty and the fascination of the

wanton Un-Dead have hypnotise him; and he remain on and on, till sunset