had just been received. It is only a line dated from Castle Dracula,

and says that he is just starting for home. That is not like Jonathan;

I do not understand it, and it makes me uneasy. Then, too, Lucy,

although she is so well, has lately taken to her old habit of walking in

her sleep. Her mother has spoken to me about it, and we have decided

that I am to lock the door of our room every night. Mrs. Westenra has

got an idea that sleep-walkers always go out on roofs of houses and

along the edges of cliffs and then get suddenly wakened and fall over

with a despairing cry that echoes all over the place. Poor dear, she is

naturally anxious about Lucy, and she tells me that her husband, Lucy’s

father, had the same habit; that he would get up in the night and dress

himself and go out, if he were not stopped. Lucy is to be married in the

autumn, and she is already planning out her dresses and how her house is

to be arranged. I sympathise with her, for I do the same, only Jonathan

and I will start in life in a very simple way, and shall have to try to

make both ends meet. Mr. Holmwood--he is the Hon. Arthur Holmwood, only

son of Lord Godalming--is coming up here very shortly--as soon as he can

leave town, for his father is not very well, and I think dear Lucy is

counting the moments till he comes. She wants to take him up to the seat

on the churchyard cliff and show him the beauty of Whitby. I daresay it

is the waiting which disturbs her; she will be all right when he

arrives.

 * * * * *

_27 July._--No news from Jonathan. I am getting quite uneasy about him,

though why I should I do not know; but I do wish that he would write, if

it were only a single line. Lucy walks more than ever, and each night I

am awakened by her moving about the room. Fortunately, the weather is so

hot that she cannot get cold; but still the anxiety and the perpetually

being wakened is beginning to tell on me, and I am getting nervous and

wakeful myself. Thank God, Lucy’s health keeps up. Mr. Holmwood has been

suddenly called to Ring to see his father, who has been taken seriously

ill. Lucy frets at the postponement of seeing him, but it does not touch

her looks; she is a trifle stouter, and her cheeks are a lovely

rose-pink. She has lost that anæmic look which she had. I pray it will

all last.

 * * * * *

_3 August._--Another week gone, and no news from Jonathan, not even to

Mr. Hawkins, from whom I have heard. Oh, I do hope he is not ill. He

surely would have written. I look at that last letter of his, but

somehow it does not satisfy me. It does not read like him, and yet it is

his writing. There is no mistake of that. Lucy has not walked much in

her sleep the last week, but there is an odd concentration about her

which I do not understand; even in her sleep she seems to be watching

me. She tries the door, and finding it locked, goes about the room

searching for the key.

_6 August._--Another three days, and no news. This suspense is getting

dreadful. If I only knew where to write to or where to go to, I should

feel easier; but no one has heard a word of Jonathan since that last

letter. I must only pray to God for patience. Lucy is more excitable

than ever, but is otherwise well. Last night was very threatening, and

the fishermen say that we are in for a storm. I must try to watch it and

learn the weather signs. To-day is a grey day, and the sun as I write is

hidden in thick clouds, high over Kettleness. Everything is grey--except

the green grass, which seems like emerald amongst it; grey earthy rock;

grey clouds, tinged with the sunburst at the far edge, hang over the

grey sea, into which the sand-points stretch like grey fingers. The sea

is tumbling in over the shallows and the sandy flats with a roar,

muffled in the sea-mists drifting inland. The horizon is lost in a grey

mist. All is vastness; the clouds are piled up like giant rocks, and

there is a “brool” over the sea that sounds like some presage of doom.

Dark figures are on the beach here and there, sometimes half shrouded in

the mist, and seem “men like trees walking.” The fishing-boats are