"Can't stop now, Mr. Damon!" answered Tom, with a laugh. "I have only

just succeeded, by hard work, in getting Mary to a point where she has

consented to take a sky ride. If I stop now she'll back out and I'll

never get her in again. See you when I come back," and Tom pulled the

covering over his ear once more.

"But, Tom, bless my shoe laces! This is important!"

"So's this!" answered Tom, with a grin. He saw, by the motion of Mr.

Damon's lips, what the latter had said.

Around swung the propeller blades. The gasoline vapor in the cylinders

was being compressed.

"Contact!" called Tom sharply, as he pressed the switch to give the

igniting spark at the proper moment. The mechanic had stepped back out

of the way, in case there should be a premature starting of the

powerful engine, in which event the blades would have cut him to pieces.

"Wait, Tom! Wait! This is very important! Bless my collar button, Tom

Swift, but this is--"

Bang! Bang! Bang!

With a series of explosions, like those of a machine gun, the motor

started, and further talk was out of the question. Tom turned on more

gas. The propellers became almost invisible blades of light and shadow,

and the aeroplane began moving over the grassy field. The mechanic had

sprung out of the way, pulling Mr. Damon with him.

"Come back! Come back! Wait a minute, Tom Swift! Bless my pansy

blossoms, I want to tell you something!" cried the little man.

But Tom Swift was away and out of hearing. He had started on his sky

ride with Mary Nestor.

CHAPTER II

A NEW IDEA

Any one who has taken a flight in an aeroplane or gone up in a balloon,

will know exactly how Mary Nestor felt on this, her first sky ride of

any distance. For a moment, as she looked over the side of the machine,

she had a distinct impression, not that she was going up, but that some

one had pulled the earth down from beneath her and, at the same time,

given her a shove off into space. Such is the first sensation of going

aloft. Then the rush of air all about her, the slightly swaying motion

of the craft, and the vibration caused by the motor took her attention.

But the sensation of the earth dropping away from beneath her remained

with Mary for some time.

This sensation is much greater in a balloon than in an aeroplane, for a

balloon, unless there is a strong wind blowing, goes straight up, while

an aeroplane ascends on a long slant, and always into the teeth of the

wind, to take advantage of its lifting power on the underside of the

planes. The reason for this sensation--that of the earth's dropping

down, instead of one's feeling, what really happens, that one is

ascending--is because there are no objects by which comparison can be

made. If one starts off on the earth's surface at slow, or at great

speed, one passes stationary objects--houses, posts, trees, and the

like--and judges the speed by the rapidity with which these are left

behind.

Going up is unlike this. There is nothing to pass. One simply cleaves

the air, and only as it rushes past can one be sure of movement. And as

the air is void of color and form, there is no sensation of passing

anything.

So Mary Nestor, as she shot into the air with Tom Swift, had a

sensation as though the earth were dropping from beneath her. For a

moment she felt as though she were in some vast void--floating in

space--and she had a great fear. Then she calmed herself. She looked at

Tom sitting in front of her. Of course, all she could see was his back,

but it looked to be a very sturdy back, indeed, and he sat there in the

aircraft as calmly as though in a chair on the ground. Then Mary took

courage, and ceased to grasp the sides of the cockpit with a grip that