last Pop. Some one has evidently been telling tales. That was Mr.

Holmwood. He often comes to see us, and he and mamma get on very well

together; they have so many things to talk about in common. We met some

time ago a man that would just _do for you_, if you were not already

engaged to Jonathan. He is an excellent _parti_, being handsome, well

off, and of good birth. He is a doctor and really clever. Just fancy! He

is only nine-and-twenty, and he has an immense lunatic asylum all under

his own care. Mr. Holmwood introduced him to me, and he called here to

see us, and often comes now. I think he is one of the most resolute men

I ever saw, and yet the most calm. He seems absolutely imperturbable. I

can fancy what a wonderful power he must have over his patients. He has

a curious habit of looking one straight in the face, as if trying to

read one’s thoughts. He tries this on very much with me, but I flatter

myself he has got a tough nut to crack. I know that from my glass. Do

you ever try to read your own face? _I do_, and I can tell you it is not

a bad study, and gives you more trouble than you can well fancy if you

have never tried it. He says that I afford him a curious psychological

study, and I humbly think I do. I do not, as you know, take sufficient

interest in dress to be able to describe the new fashions. Dress is a

bore. That is slang again, but never mind; Arthur says that every day.

There, it is all out. Mina, we have told all our secrets to each other

since we were _children_; we have slept together and eaten together, and

laughed and cried together; and now, though I have spoken, I would like

to speak more. Oh, Mina, couldn’t you guess? I love him. I am blushing

as I write, for although I _think_ he loves me, he has not told me so in

words. But oh, Mina, I love him; I love him; I love him! There, that

does me good. I wish I were with you, dear, sitting by the fire

undressing, as we used to sit; and I would try to tell you what I feel.

I do not know how I am writing this even to you. I am afraid to stop,

or I should tear up the letter, and I don’t want to stop, for I _do_ so

want to tell you all. Let me hear from you _at once_, and tell me all

that you think about it. Mina, I must stop. Good-night. Bless me in your

prayers; and, Mina, pray for my happiness.

“LUCY.

“P.S.--I need not tell you this is a secret. Good-night again.

“L.”

_Letter, Lucy Westenra to Mina Murray_.

“_24 May_.

“My dearest Mina,--

“Thanks, and thanks, and thanks again for your sweet letter. It was so

nice to be able to tell you and to have your sympathy.

“My dear, it never rains but it pours. How true the old proverbs are.

Here am I, who shall be twenty in September, and yet I never had a

proposal till to-day, not a real proposal, and to-day I have had three.

Just fancy! THREE proposals in one day! Isn’t it awful! I feel sorry,

really and truly sorry, for two of the poor fellows. Oh, Mina, I am so

happy that I don’t know what to do with myself. And three proposals!

But, for goodness’ sake, don’t tell any of the girls, or they would be

getting all sorts of extravagant ideas and imagining themselves injured

and slighted if in their very first day at home they did not get six at

least. Some girls are so vain! You and I, Mina dear, who are engaged and

are going to settle down soon soberly into old married women, can

despise vanity. Well, I must tell you about the three, but you must keep

it a secret, dear, from _every one_, except, of course, Jonathan. You