"Look!" cried the young inventor to Jackson. "They've been here more

than once, and have gone along the road in both directions. They seem

to have used this turning into the lot as a sort of stopping place."

This was plain enough from an examination of the marks in the sandy

soil of the road, which was one not often used. The automobile with the

queer, square marks on the tires had turned into the lot, coming and

going in both directions.

"This settles it!" cried Tom, when he finished making an examination.

"There's something farther back in this lot that we've got to see. This

auto has been coming and going, and we should have followed the tracks

the other way from the point where we first saw them, instead of coming

this way."

"Except that we've learned the place of departure," suggested Jackson.

"Evidently the wood-lot is a blind alley. The car goes in, but it can

come out only just at this point, or, at least, it does."

"That's right!" agreed Tom. "Now the thing to do is to follow our track

back to where we started. There must be some place where the car went

to--some headquarters, or meeting place with some one, farther back in

the lot. If we can only follow the trail back as well as we did coming,

we may find out something."

"Well, let's try, anyhow," suggested Jackson.

They had no difficulty in making their way back to the spot where they

had first seen the queer marks. But from then on their task was not so

easy. For sandy or bare patches of earth were not frequent, and they

had to depend on these to give them direction, for the road was

overgrown and not well defined.

Often they would search about for some time after leaving one patch of

the marks before they found another that would justify them in keeping

on.

"They have headquarters, or a rendezvous, somewhere back in this lot!"

declared Tom, as they hurried on. "I think we're on the track of a

mystery."

"Unless it turns out that some farmer has treated himself to an auto

with new tires of square tread, and is hauling wood," said Jackson. "It

may turn out that way."

"Yes, it may," agreed Tom. "But, taking everything into consideration,

I think we're on the verge of finding out something. Even if we do

discover that the owner of this auto is only hauling wood, he may be

able to help us to a clew as to the whereabouts of Mr. Nestor."

"How?"

"Well, maybe he was in his machine on the moor the night the call for

help came. He may even have aided to carry Mr. Nestor away. And if he

doesn't know a thing about it--which, of course, is possible--the man

who bought these queer tires can tell us who makes them, or who deals

in them, and we can find out what autoists around here have their cars

equipped with this odd tread."

"Yes," agreed Jackson, "that can be done."

And so they kept on, scouting here and there to either side of the

half-defined path, until they were far back from the spot where they

had left the Air Scout.

"We don't appear to be getting any warmer, as the children say,"

remarked Jackson, as he straightened up and looked about, for his back

ached from so much stooping over to look for the odd marks.

"We haven't seen anything yet, I'll admit," said Tom. "But it won't be

dark for another hour or so, and I vote that we keep on."

"Oh, I wasn't thinking of giving up!" exclaimed Jackson. "If there's

anything here--at the end of the route, as you might say--we'll find

it. Only I hope it doesn't turn out to be just a wood pile, from which

some farmer has been hauling logs."

"That would be a disappointment," assented Tom.

The day was waning, and they realized that they ought not to spend too

much time on what might turn out to be a wild goose chase. They were in

a lonely neighborhood, and while they were not at all apprehensive of

danger, they felt it would be best to get to shelter before dark.

"We'll want to send word to Mr. Swift that we're all right."

"Yes," said Tom, "I'd like to get to a place where I can telephone to

him or Mrs. Baggert. Well, if we don't find something pretty soon we'll

have to turn back. I must complete work on the new motor, for if I'm to

offer it to Uncle Sam for air scout purposes, the sooner I can do so

the better. Things are getting pretty hot over in Europe, and if ever