sleep when those she loves are in danger! I shall lie down and pretend

to sleep, lest Jonathan have added anxiety about me when he returns.

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_1 October, 4 a. m._--Just as we were about to leave the house, an

urgent message was brought to me from Renfield to know if I would see

him at once, as he had something of the utmost importance to say to me.

I told the messenger to say that I would attend to his wishes in the

morning; I was busy just at the moment. The attendant added:--

“He seems very importunate, sir. I have never seen him so eager. I don’t

know but what, if you don’t see him soon, he will have one of his

violent fits.” I knew the man would not have said this without some

cause, so I said: “All right; I’ll go now”; and I asked the others to

wait a few minutes for me, as I had to go and see my “patient.”

“Take me with you, friend John,” said the Professor. “His case in your

diary interest me much, and it had bearing, too, now and again on _our_

case. I should much like to see him, and especial when his mind is

disturbed.”

“May I come also?” asked Lord Godalming.

“Me too?” said Quincey Morris. “May I come?” said Harker. I nodded, and

we all went down the passage together.

We found him in a state of considerable excitement, but far more

rational in his speech and manner than I had ever seen him. There was an

unusual understanding of himself, which was unlike anything I had ever

met with in a lunatic; and he took it for granted that his reasons would

prevail with others entirely sane. We all four went into the room, but

none of the others at first said anything. His request was that I would

at once release him from the asylum and send him home. This he backed up

with arguments regarding his complete recovery, and adduced his own

existing sanity. “I appeal to your friends,” he said, “they will,

perhaps, not mind sitting in judgment on my case. By the way, you have

not introduced me.” I was so much astonished, that the oddness of

introducing a madman in an asylum did not strike me at the moment; and,

besides, there was a certain dignity in the man’s manner, so much of

the habit of equality, that I at once made the introduction: “Lord

Godalming; Professor Van Helsing; Mr. Quincey Morris, of Texas; Mr.

Renfield.” He shook hands with each of them, saying in turn:--

“Lord Godalming, I had the honour of seconding your father at the

Windham; I grieve to know, by your holding the title, that he is no

more. He was a man loved and honoured by all who knew him; and in his

youth was, I have heard, the inventor of a burnt rum punch, much

patronised on Derby night. Mr. Morris, you should be proud of your great

state. Its reception into the Union was a precedent which may have

far-reaching effects hereafter, when the Pole and the Tropics may hold

alliance to the Stars and Stripes. The power of Treaty may yet prove a

vast engine of enlargement, when the Monroe doctrine takes its true

place as a political fable. What shall any man say of his pleasure at

meeting Van Helsing? Sir, I make no apology for dropping all forms of

conventional prefix. When an individual has revolutionised therapeutics

by his discovery of the continuous evolution of brain-matter,

conventional forms are unfitting, since they would seem to limit him to

one of a class. You, gentlemen, who by nationality, by heredity, or by

the possession of natural gifts, are fitted to hold your respective

places in the moving world, I take to witness that I am as sane as at

least the majority of men who are in full possession of their liberties.

And I am sure that you, Dr. Seward, humanitarian and medico-jurist as

well as scientist, will deem it a moral duty to deal with me as one to

be considered as under exceptional circumstances.” He made this last

appeal with a courtly air of conviction which was not without its own

charm.

I think we were all staggered. For my own part, I was under the

conviction, despite my knowledge of the man’s character and history,

that his reason had been restored; and I felt under a strong impulse to

tell him that I was satisfied as to his sanity, and would see about the

necessary formalities for his release in the morning. I thought it

better to wait, however, before making so grave a statement, for of old

I knew the sudden changes to which this particular patient was liable.

So I contented myself with making a general statement that he appeared

to be improving very rapidly; that I would have a longer chat with him

in the morning, and would then see what I could do in the direction of

meeting his wishes. This did not at all satisfy him, for he said

quickly:--

“But I fear, Dr. Seward, that you hardly apprehend my wish. I desire to