the other operations, and none of us ever shall. Arthur and Quincey went

away together to the station, and Van Helsing and I came on here. The

moment we were alone in the carriage he gave way to a regular fit of

hysterics. He has denied to me since that it was hysterics, and insisted

that it was only his sense of humour asserting itself under very

terrible conditions. He laughed till he cried, and I had to draw down

the blinds lest any one should see us and misjudge; and then he cried,

till he laughed again; and laughed and cried together, just as a woman

does. I tried to be stern with him, as one is to a woman under the

circumstances; but it had no effect. Men and women are so different in

manifestations of nervous strength or weakness! Then when his face grew

grave and stern again I asked him why his mirth, and why at such a time.

His reply was in a way characteristic of him, for it was logical and

forceful and mysterious. He said:--

“Ah, you don’t comprehend, friend John. Do not think that I am not sad,

though I laugh. See, I have cried even when the laugh did choke me. But

no more think that I am all sorry when I cry, for the laugh he come

just the same. Keep it always with you that laughter who knock at your

door and say, ‘May I come in?’ is not the true laughter. No! he is a

king, and he come when and how he like. He ask no person; he choose no

time of suitability. He say, ‘I am here.’ Behold, in example I grieve my

heart out for that so sweet young girl; I give my blood for her, though

I am old and worn; I give my time, my skill, my sleep; I let my other

sufferers want that so she may have all. And yet I can laugh at her very

grave--laugh when the clay from the spade of the sexton drop upon her

coffin and say ‘Thud! thud!’ to my heart, till it send back the blood

from my cheek. My heart bleed for that poor boy--that dear boy, so of

the age of mine own boy had I been so blessed that he live, and with his

hair and eyes the same. There, you know now why I love him so. And yet

when he say things that touch my husband-heart to the quick, and make my

father-heart yearn to him as to no other man--not even to you, friend

John, for we are more level in experiences than father and son--yet even

at such moment King Laugh he come to me and shout and bellow in my ear,

‘Here I am! here I am!’ till the blood come dance back and bring some of

the sunshine that he carry with him to my cheek. Oh, friend John, it is

a strange world, a sad world, a world full of miseries, and woes, and

troubles; and yet when King Laugh come he make them all dance to the

tune he play. Bleeding hearts, and dry bones of the churchyard, and

tears that burn as they fall--all dance together to the music that he

make with that smileless mouth of him. And believe me, friend John, that

he is good to come, and kind. Ah, we men and women are like ropes drawn

tight with strain that pull us different ways. Then tears come; and,

like the rain on the ropes, they brace us up, until perhaps the strain

become too great, and we break. But King Laugh he come like the

sunshine, and he ease off the strain again; and we bear to go on with

our labour, what it may be.”

I did not like to wound him by pretending not to see his idea; but, as I

did not yet understand the cause of his laughter, I asked him. As he

answered me his face grew stern, and he said in quite a different

tone:--

“Oh, it was the grim irony of it all--this so lovely lady garlanded with

flowers, that looked so fair as life, till one by one we wondered if she

were truly dead; she laid in that so fine marble house in that lonely

churchyard, where rest so many of her kin, laid there with the mother

who loved her, and whom she loved; and that sacred bell going ‘Toll!

toll! toll!’ so sad and slow; and those holy men, with the white

garments of the angel, pretending to read books, and yet all the time

their eyes never on the page; and all of us with the bowed head. And all

for what? She is dead; so! Is it not?”

“Well, for the life of me, Professor,” I said, “I can’t see anything to

laugh at in all that. Why, your explanation makes it a harder puzzle

than before. But even if the burial service was comic, what about poor

Art and his trouble? Why, his heart was simply breaking.”