"That's right, Tom! Well, I must go. Another week of this Liberty Bond

campaign!"

"I suppose you'll be glad when it's over."

"Well, I don't know," said Ned slowly. "It's part of my small

contribution to Uncle Sam. I'm not like you--I can't invent things."

"But you have an awful smooth line of talk, Ned!" laughed his chum. "I

believe you could sell chloride of sodium to some of the fishes in the

Great Salt Lake--that is if it has fishes."

"I don't know that it has, Tom. And, anyhow, I'm not posing as a salt

salesman," and Ned grinned. "But I must really go. Our bank hasn't

reached its quota in the sale of Liberty Bonds yet, and it's up to me

to see that it doesn't fall down."

"Go to it, Ned! And I'll get busy on my silent motor."

"Getting busy" was Tom Swift's favorite occupation, and when he was

working on a new idea, as was the case now, he was seldom idle, night

or day.

"I have hardly seen you for two weeks," Mary Nestor wrote him one day.

"Aren't you ever coming to see me any more, or take me for a ride?"

"Yes," Tom wrote back. "I'll be over soon. And perhaps on the next ride

we take I won't have to shout at you through a speaking tube because

the motor makes so much noise."

From this it may be gathered that Tom was on the verge of success.

While not altogether satisfied with his progress, the young inventor

felt that he was on the right track. There were certain changes that

needed to be made in the apparatus he was building--certain refinements

that must be added, and when this should be done Tom was pretty certain

that he would have what would prove to be a very quiet aeroplane, if

not an absolutely silent one.

The young inventor was engaged one day with some of the last details of

the experiment. The new motor, with the silencer and the changed

cylinders, had been attached to one of Tom's speedy aeroplanes, and he

was making some intricate calculations in relation to a new cylinder

block, to be used when he started to make a completely new machine of

the improved type.

Tom had set down on paper some computations regarding the cross-section

of one of the cylinders, and was working out the amount of stress to

which he could subject a shoulder strut, when a shadow was cast across

the drawing board he had propped up in his lap.

In an instant Tom pulled a blank sheet over his mass of figures and

looked up, a sudden fear coming over him that another spy was at hand.

But a hearty voice reassured him.

"Bless my rice pudding!" cried Mr. Damon, "you shut yourself up here,

Tom, like a hermit in the mountains. Why don't you come out and enjoy

life?"

"Hello! Glad to see you!" cried Tom, joyfully. "You're just in time!"

"Time for what--dinner?" asked the eccentric man, with a chuckle. "If

so, my reference to rice pudding was very proper."

"Why, yes, I imagine there must be a dinner in prospect somewhere, Mr.

Damon," said Tom with a smile. "We'll have to see Mrs. Baggert about

that. But what I meant was that you're just in time to have a ride with

me, if you want to go."

"Go where?"

"Oh, up in cloudland. I have just finished my first sample of a silent

motor, and I'm going to try it this evening. Would you like to come

along?"

"I would!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Bless my onion soup, Tom, but I would!

But why fly at night? Isn't it safer by daylight?"

"Oh, that doesn't make much difference. It's safe enough at any time.

The reason I'm going to make my first flight after dark is that I don't

want any spies about."

"Oh, I see! Are they camping on your trail?"

"Not exactly. But I can't tell where they may be. If I should start out

in daylight and be forced to make a landing-- Well, you know what a

crowd always collects to see a stranded airship."

"That's right, Tom."

"That decided me to start off after dark. Then if we have to come down