Not only must the object, either solid, liquid, or gaseous, be in

motion to produce sound, but the air surrounding the vibrating body

must also be moving in unison with it. And lastly there must be some

medium of receiving the sound waves--the ear or some part of the body.

Totally deaf persons may be made aware of sound through the vibrations

received through their hands or feet. They receive, of course, only the

more intense, or largest, sound waves, and can not hear notes of music

nor spoken words, though they may feel the vibration when a piano is

played. And, as Ned has said, no sound is produced in a vacuum.

"But," said Tom, "since I can't run my aeroplane in a vacuum, or even

have the propellers revolve in one, it's up to me to solve the problem

some other way. The propellers don't really make noise enough to worry

about when they're high in the air. It's the exhaust from the motor,

and to get rid of that will be my first attempt."

"Can it be done?" asked Ned.

"I don't know," was Tom's frank answer.

"They do it on an automobile to a great extent," went on Ned. "Some of

'em you cant hardly hear."

"Yes, but an aeroplane engine runs many, many times faster than the

motor of an auto," said Tom, "and there are more explosions to muffle.

I doubt if the muffler of an auto would cut down the sound of an aero

engine to any appreciable extent. But, of course, I'll try along those

lines."

"They have mufflers or silencers for guns and rifles," went on Ned.

"Couldn't you make a big one of those contraptions and put it on an

aeroplane?"

"I doubt it," said Tom, shaking his head. "Of course it's the same

principle as that in an auto muffler, or on a motor boat--a series of

baffle plates arranged within a hollow cylinder. But all such devices

cut down power, and I don't want to do that. However, I'm going to

solve the problem or--bust!"

And Tom came near "busting," Ned remarked later, when he and his friend

talked over the progress of the invention.

Two weeks had passed since the start of his evolution of his new idea,

and following the visiting of the representatives of the Universal

Flying Machine Company. Since then neither Gale nor Ware had

communicated with Tom.

"But I must be on the watch against them," thought the young inventor.

"I'm pretty sure Gale heard me mention what I was going to try to

invent, and he may get ahead of me, and put a silent motor on the

market first. Not that I'm afraid of being done out of any profits, but

I simply don't want to be beaten."

The details of Tom's invention cannot be gone into, but, roughly, it

was based on the principle of not only a muffler but also of producing

less noise when the charges of gasoline exploded in the cylinders. It

is, of course, the explosion of gasoline mixed with air that causes an

internal combustion engine to operate. And it is the expulsion of the

burned gases that causes the exhaust and makes the noise that is heard.

Tom was working along the well-known line of the rate of travel of

sound, which progresses at the rate of about 1090 feet a second when

air is at the freezing point. And, roughly, with every degree increase

in the atmosphere's temperature the velocity of sound increases by one

foot. Thus at a temperature of 100 degrees Fahrenheit, or 68 degrees

above freezing, there would be added to the 1090 feet the 68 feet,

making sound travel at 100 degrees Fahrenheit about 1158 feet a second.

Tom had set up in his shop a powerful, but not very speedy, old

aeroplane engine, and had attached to it the device he hoped would help

him toward solving his problem of cutting down the noise. He had had

some success with it, and, after days and nights of labor, he invited

his father and Ned, as well as Mr. Damon, over to see what he hoped

would be a final experiment.

His visitors had assembled in the shop, and Eradicate was setting out

some refreshments which Tom had provided, the colored man being in his

element now.

"What's all this figuring, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon, as he saw a series of

calculations on some sheets of paper lying on Tom's desk.

"That's where I worked out how much faster sound traveled in hydrogen

gas than in the ordinary atmosphere," was the answer. "It goes about

four times as fast, or nearly four thousand two hundred feet a second.

You remember the rule, I suppose. 'The speed of sonorous vibrations

through gases varies inversely as the squares of the weights of equal

volumes of the gases,' or, in other words--"

"Give it to us chiefly in 'other words,' if you please, Tom!" pleaded

Ned, with a laugh. "Let that go and do some tricks. Start the engine

and let's see if we can hear it."