date, drawn up from the verbal testimony of individuals, some of whom

had known Hester Prynne, while others had heard the tale from

contemporary witnesses,—fully confirms the view taken in the

foregoing pages. Among many morals which press upon us from the poor

minister’s miserable experience, we put only this into a

sentence:—“Be true! Be true! Be true! Show freely to the world, if

not your worst, yet some trait whereby the worst may be inferred!”

Nothing was more remarkable than the change which took place, almost

immediately after Mr. Dimmesdale’s death, in the appearance and

demeanor of the old man known as Roger Chillingworth. All his strength

and energy—all his vital and intellectual force—seemed at once to

desert him; insomuch that he positively withered up, shrivelled away,

and almost vanished from mortal sight, like an uprooted weed that lies

wilting in the sun. This unhappy man had made the very principle of

his life to consist in the pursuit and systematic exercise of revenge;

and when, by its completest triumph and consummation, that evil

principle was left with no further material to support it, when, in

short, there was no more Devil’s work on earth for him to do, it only

remained for the unhumanized mortal to betake himself whither his

Master would find him tasks enough, and pay him his wages duly. But,

to all these shadowy beings, so long our near acquaintances,—as well

Roger Chillingworth as his companions,—we would fain be merciful. It

is a curious subject of observation and inquiry, whether hatred and

love be not the same thing at bottom. Each, in its utmost development,

supposes a high degree of intimacy and heart-knowledge; each renders

one individual dependent for the food of his affections and spiritual

life upon another; each leaves the passionate lover, or the no less

passionate hater, forlorn and desolate by the withdrawal of his

subject. Philosophically considered, therefore, the two passions seem

essentially the same, except that one happens to be seen in a

celestial radiance, and the other in a dusky and lurid glow. In the

spiritual world, the old physician and the minister—mutual victims as

they have been—may, unawares, have found their earthly stock of

hatred and antipathy transmuted into golden love.

Leaving this discussion apart, we have a matter of business to

communicate to the reader. At old Roger Chillingworth’s decease,

(which took place within the year,) and by his last will and

testament, of which Governor Bellingham and the Reverend Mr. Wilson

were executors, he bequeathed a very considerable amount of property,

both here and in England, to little Pearl, the daughter of Hester

Prynne.

So Pearl—the elf-child,—the demon offspring, as some people, up to

that epoch, persisted in considering her,—became the richest heiress

of her day, in the New World. Not improbably, this circumstance

wrought a very material change in the public estimation; and, had the

mother and child remained here, little Pearl, at a marriageable period

of life, might have mingled her wild blood with the lineage of the

devoutest Puritan among them all. But, in no long time after the

physician’s death, the wearer of the scarlet letter disappeared, and

Pearl along with her. For many years, though a vague report would now

and then find its way across the sea,—like a shapeless piece of

drift-wood tost ashore, with the initials of a name upon it,—yet no

tidings of them unquestionably authentic were received. The story of

the scarlet letter grew into a legend. Its spell, however, was still

potent, and kept the scaffold awful where the poor minister had died,

and likewise the cottage by the sea-shore, where Hester Prynne had

dwelt. Near this latter spot, one afternoon, some children were at

play, when they beheld a tall woman, in a gray robe, approach the

cottage-door. In all those years it had never once been opened; but

either she unlocked it, or the decaying wood and iron yielded to her

hand, or she glided shadow-like through these impediments,—and, at

all events, went in.

On the threshold she paused,—turned partly round,—for, perchance,

the idea of entering all alone, and all so changed, the home of so

intense a former life, was more dreary and desolate than even she

could bear. But her hesitation was only for an instant, though long

enough to display a scarlet letter on her breast.

[Illustration: Hester’s Return]

And Hester Prynne had returned, and taken up her long-forsaken shame!

But where was little Pearl? If still alive, she must now have been in

the flush and bloom of early womanhood. None knew—nor ever learned,

with the fulness of perfect certainty—whether the elf-child had gone

thus untimely to a maiden grave; or whether her wild, rich nature had

been softened and subdued, and made capable of a woman’s gentle

happiness. But, through the remainder of Hester’s life, there were

indications that the recluse of the scarlet letter was the object of