communicate with the police?"

"Why not try the Alexian Hospital?" asked Mr. Damon. "That's away over

in Centerford, to be sure, but it's more likely to be known to

passing tourists than either of our institutions around here,

especially if the autoists were strangers."

"That's so," agreed Tom. The Alexian Hospital was operated under the

direction of the Brothers of that faith, and was well known in that

part of the state. Often cases of persons who had been injured by

passing automobiles had been taken there for treatment, for, as Mr.

Damon had said, it was well known, and Centerford was the nearest large

city.

"I can just about see how it happened," said Tom. "They ran Mr. Nestor

down, and stopped to pick him up after they heard his cries for help.

And the Alexian Hospital was the first one they thought of. We should

have called that up first."

But once more disappointment awaited the young inventor and his friend.

Word came back over the wire that no accident case, which bore any

resemblance to Mary's father, had been brought in.

"Well, I'm stumped!" exclaimed Tom. "What shall we do now, Mr. Damon?"

"Much as I dislike it," said the eccentric man who was too much

worried, now, to do any "blessing," which was his favorite expression,

"I think we ought to communicate with Mrs. Nestor. She will be very

anxious."

"I guess we'll have to," said Tom. "But wait! I'll call up my house

first, and see if he has gone back there."

But Mr. Nestor had not done this, and Mrs. Baggert, who answered the

telephone, said Mary had been calling frantically for Tom, as her

mother was now on the verge of complete collapse.

"No help for it," said Tom, ruefully. "We've got to tell 'em we have no

news, and can't find him."

And, hearing this, Mrs. Nestor did collapse, and a doctor was called in.

Thereupon Tom, who with Mr. Damon had gone back to the Nestor home,

took charge of matters, sending for Mrs. Nestor's sister to come and

stay with her and take charge of the house.

"You'll need some one to stay with you," he told Mary.

"Yes, I shall," she admitted, trying bravely not to give way to her

emotion. "Oh, Tom, I wish you could stay, too. I'm sure something

dreadful must have happened to poor father. Please stay and help us

find him!"

"I will," Tom promised. "As soon as your aunt comes I'll take Mr. Damon

home, and then I'll give the rest of my time to you."

And this Tom did, sending word home that he would remain at the

Nestor's all night and part of the next day.

Tom got but little sleep that night. He communicated with the police

and saw to it that a general alarm was sent out. He called up all

hospitals within a radius of fifty miles, but could get no trace of any

injured man whose description resembled that of Mr. Nestor.

"What can have happened?" asked Mary tearfully.

"Well, the way I figure it out is this," said Tom. "Your father left my

house soon after Mr. Damon and I did in the Air Scout. Mr. Nestor was

riding his bicycle, and he must have been run into by an automobile.

That is how his watch was damaged and that was when Mr. Damon and I

heard the cries for help."

"Oh, do you think he was badly hurt?" asked Mary.

"No, I don't," and Tom answered truthfully. "The voice sounded as

though he was in pain, certainly, but it was strong and vigorous, and

not at all as though he was dangerously hurt."

"And what do you think happened to him after he was hurt?" asked Mary.

"The autoists took him away," decided Tom. "In fact, we heard the

machine go, but of course we never connected the call for help and what

followed with your father. The autoists took him away."

"Where?"

"I should say to some hospital. Perhaps a private one of which we know

nothing, and which may be near here. I'll get a full list from the

Board of Health to-morrow. Or it may be that the autoists, seeing the

damage they had done, took your father to the home of one of

themselves, and summoned a doctor there."

"Why would they do that?"

"Well, they may have been so frightened they didn't realize what they