seemingly so peculiar,—which no other mortal being can possess. And,

moreover, is there not a quality of awful sacredness in the relation

between this mother and this child?”

“Ay!—how is that, good Master Dimmesdale?” interrupted the Governor.

“Make that plain, I pray you!”

“It must be even so,” resumed the minister. “For, if we deem it

otherwise, do we not thereby say that the Heavenly Father, the Creator

of all flesh, hath lightly recognized a deed of sin, and made of no

account the distinction between unhallowed lust and holy love? This

child of its father’s guilt and its mother’s shame hath come from the

hand of God, to work in many ways upon her heart, who pleads so

earnestly, and with such bitterness of spirit, the right to keep her.

It was meant for a blessing; for the one blessing of her life! It was

meant, doubtless, as the mother herself hath told us, for a

retribution too; a torture to be felt at many an unthought-of moment;

a pang, a sting, an ever-recurring agony, in the midst of a troubled

joy! Hath she not expressed this thought in the garb of the poor

child, so forcibly reminding us of that red symbol which sears her

bosom?”

“Well said, again!” cried good Mr. Wilson. “I feared the woman had no

better thought than to make a mountebank of her child!”

“O, not so!—not so!” continued Mr. Dimmesdale. “She recognizes,

believe me, the solemn miracle which God hath wrought, in the

existence of that child. And may she feel, too,—what, methinks, is

the very truth,—that this boon was meant, above all things else, to

keep the mother’s soul alive, and to preserve her from blacker depths

of sin into which Satan might else have sought to plunge her!

Therefore it is good for this poor, sinful woman that she hath an

infant immortality, a being capable of eternal joy or sorrow,

confided to her care,—to be trained up by her to righteousness,—to

remind her, at every moment, of her fall,—but yet to teach her, as it

were by the Creator’s sacred pledge, that, if she bring the child to

heaven, the child also will bring its parent thither! Herein is the

sinful mother happier than the sinful father. For Hester Prynne’s

sake, then, and no less for the poor child’s sake, let us leave them

as Providence hath seen fit to place them!”

“You speak, my friend, with a strange earnestness,” said old Roger

Chillingworth, smiling at him.

“And there is a weighty import in what my young brother hath spoken,”

added the Reverend Mr. Wilson. “What say you, worshipful Master

Bellingham? Hath he not pleaded well for the poor woman?”

“Indeed hath he,” answered the magistrate, “and hath adduced such

arguments, that we will even leave the matter as it now stands; so

long, at least, as there shall be no further scandal in the woman.

Care must be had, nevertheless, to put the child to due and stated

examination in the catechism, at thy hands or Master Dimmesdale’s.

Moreover, at a proper season, the tithing-men must take heed that she

go both to school and to meeting.”

The young minister, on ceasing to speak, had withdrawn a few steps

from the group, and stood with his face partially concealed in the

heavy folds of the window-curtain; while the shadow of his figure,

which the sunlight cast upon the floor, was tremulous with the

vehemence of his appeal. Pearl, that wild and flighty little elf,

stole softly towards him, and taking his hand in the grasp of both her

own, laid her cheek against it; a caress so tender, and withal so

unobtrusive, that her mother, who was looking on, asked herself,—“Is

that my Pearl?” Yet she knew that there was love in the child’s heart,

although it mostly revealed itself in passion, and hardly twice in her

lifetime had been softened by such gentleness as now. The

minister,—for, save the long-sought regards of woman, nothing is

sweeter than these marks of childish preference, accorded

spontaneously by a spiritual instinct, and therefore seeming to imply

in us something truly worthy to be loved,—the minister looked round,

laid his hand on the child’s head, hesitated an instant, and then

kissed her brow. Little Pearl’s unwonted mood of sentiment lasted no

longer; she laughed, and went capering down the hall, so airily, that

old Mr. Wilson raised a question whether even her tiptoes touched the

floor.

“The little baggage hath witchcraft in her, I profess,” said he to Mr.

Dimmesdale. “She needs no old woman’s broomstick to fly withal!”

“A strange child!” remarked old Roger Chillingworth. “It is easy to

see the mother’s part in her. Would it be beyond a philosopher’s

research, think ye, gentlemen, to analyze that child’s nature, and,

from its make and mould, to give a shrewd guess at the father?”

“Nay; it would be sinful, in such a question, to follow the clew of

profane philosophy,” said Mr. Wilson. “Better to fast and pray upon

it; and still better, it may be, to leave the mystery as we find it,

unless Providence reveal it of its own accord. Thereby, every good

Christian man hath a title to show a father’s kindness towards the