relation.

The Governor, in advance of his visitors, ascended one or two steps,

and, throwing open the leaves of the great hall-window, found himself

close to little Pearl. The shadow of the curtain fell on Hester

Prynne, and partially concealed her.

“What have we here?” said Governor Bellingham, looking with surprise

at the scarlet little figure before him. “I profess, I have never seen

the like, since my days of vanity, in old King James’s time, when I

was wont to esteem it a high favor to be admitted to a court mask!

There used to be a swarm of these small apparitions, in holiday time;

and we called them children of the Lord of Misrule. But how gat such a

guest into my hall?”

“Ay, indeed!” cried good old Mr. Wilson. “What little bird of scarlet

plumage may this be? Methinks I have seen just such figures, when the

sun has been shining through a richly painted window, and tracing out

the golden and crimson images across the floor. But that was in the

old land. Prithee, young one, who art thou, and what has ailed thy

mother to bedizen thee in this strange fashion? Art thou a Christian

child,—ha? Dost know thy catechism? Or art thou one of those naughty

elfs or fairies, whom we thought to have left behind us, with other

relics of Papistry, in merry old England?”

“I am mother’s child,” answered the scarlet vision, “and my name is

Pearl!”

“Pearl?—Ruby, rather!—or Coral!—or Red Rose, at the very least,

judging from thy hue!” responded the old minister, putting forth his

hand in a vain attempt to pat little Pearl on the cheek. “But where is

this mother of thine? Ah! I see,” he added; and, turning to Governor

Bellingham, whispered, “This is the selfsame child of whom we have

held speech together; and behold here the unhappy woman, Hester

Prynne, her mother!”

“Sayest thou so?” cried the Governor. “Nay, we might have judged that

such a child’s mother must needs be a scarlet woman, and a worthy type

of her of Babylon! But she comes at a good time; and we will look into

this matter forthwith.”

Governor Bellingham stepped through the window into the hall, followed

by his three guests.

“Hester Prynne,” said he, fixing his naturally stern regard on the

wearer of the scarlet letter, “there hath been much question

concerning thee, of late. The point hath been weightily discussed,

whether we, that are of authority and influence, do well discharge our

consciences by trusting an immortal soul, such as there is in yonder

child, to the guidance of one who hath stumbled and fallen, amid the

pitfalls of this world. Speak thou, the child’s own mother! Were it

not, thinkest thou, for thy little one’s temporal and eternal welfare

that she be taken out of thy charge, and clad soberly, and disciplined

strictly, and instructed in the truths of heaven and earth? What canst

thou do for the child, in this kind?”

“I can teach my little Pearl what I have learned from this!” answered

Hester Prynne, laying her finger on the red token.

“Woman, it is thy badge of shame!” replied the stern magistrate. “It

is because of the stain which that letter indicates, that we would

transfer thy child to other hands.”

“Nevertheless,” said the mother, calmly, though growing more pale,

“this badge hath taught me—it daily teaches me—it is teaching me at

this moment—lessons whereof my child may be the wiser and better,

albeit they can profit nothing to myself.”

“We will judge warily,” said Bellingham, “and look well what we are

about to do. Good Master Wilson, I pray you, examine this

Pearl,—since that is her name,—and see whether she hath had such

Christian nurture as befits a child of her age.”

The old minister seated himself in an arm-chair, and made an effort to

draw Pearl betwixt his knees. But the child, unaccustomed to the touch

or familiarity of any but her mother, escaped through the open window,

and stood on the upper step, looking like a wild tropical bird, of

rich plumage, ready to take flight into the upper air. Mr. Wilson, not

a little astonished at this outbreak,—for he was a grandfatherly sort

of personage, and usually a vast favorite with children,—essayed,

however, to proceed with the examination.

“Pearl,” said he, with great solemnity, “thou must take heed to

instruction, that so, in due season, thou mayest wear in thy bosom the

pearl of great price. Canst thou tell me, my child, who made thee?”

Now Pearl knew well enough who made her; for Hester Prynne, the

daughter of a pious home, very soon after her talk with the child

about her Heavenly Father, had begun to inform her of those truths

which the human spirit, at whatever stage of immaturity, imbibes with