My mind was occupied by anxiety for my wife. I figured her at

Leatherhead, terrified, in danger, mourning me already as a dead man. I

paced the rooms and cried aloud when I thought of how I was cut off

from her, of all that might happen to her in my absence. My cousin I

knew was brave enough for any emergency, but he was not the sort of man

to realise danger quickly, to rise promptly. What was needed now was

not bravery, but circumspection. My only consolation was to believe

that the Martians were moving Londonward and away from her. Such vague

anxieties keep the mind sensitive and painful. I grew very weary and

irritable with the curate’s perpetual ejaculations; I tired of the

sight of his selfish despair. After some ineffectual remonstrance I

kept away from him, staying in a room—evidently a children’s

schoolroom—containing globes, forms, and copybooks. When he followed me

thither, I went to a box room at the top of the house and, in order to

be alone with my aching miseries, locked myself in.

We were hopelessly hemmed in by the Black Smoke all that day and the

morning of the next. There were signs of people in the next house on

Sunday evening—a face at a window and moving lights, and later the

slamming of a door. But I do not know who these people were, nor what

became of them. We saw nothing of them next day. The Black Smoke

drifted slowly riverward all through Monday morning, creeping nearer

and nearer to us, driving at last along the roadway outside the house

that hid us.

A Martian came across the fields about midday, laying the stuff with a

jet of superheated steam that hissed against the walls, smashed all the

windows it touched, and scalded the curate’s hand as he fled out of the

front room. When at last we crept across the sodden rooms and looked

out again, the country northward was as though a black snowstorm had

passed over it. Looking towards the river, we were astonished to see an

unaccountable redness mingling with the black of the scorched meadows.

For a time we did not see how this change affected our position, save

that we were relieved of our fear of the Black Smoke. But later I

perceived that we were no longer hemmed in, that now we might get away.

So soon as I realised that the way of escape was open, my dream of

action returned. But the curate was lethargic, unreasonable.

“We are safe here,” he repeated; “safe here.”

I resolved to leave him—would that I had! Wiser now for the

artilleryman’s teaching, I sought out food and drink. I had found oil

and rags for my burns, and I also took a hat and a flannel shirt that I

found in one of the bedrooms. When it was clear to him that I meant to

go alone—had reconciled myself to going alone—he suddenly roused

himself to come. And all being quiet throughout the afternoon, we

started about five o’clock, as I should judge, along the blackened road

to Sunbury.

In Sunbury, and at intervals along the road, were dead bodies lying in

contorted attitudes, horses as well as men, overturned carts and

luggage, all covered thickly with black dust. That pall of cindery

powder made me think of what I had read of the destruction of Pompeii.

We got to Hampton Court without misadventure, our minds full of strange

and unfamiliar appearances, and at Hampton Court our eyes were relieved

to find a patch of green that had escaped the suffocating drift. We

went through Bushey Park, with its deer going to and fro under the

chestnuts, and some men and women hurrying in the distance towards

Hampton, and so we came to Twickenham. These were the first people we

saw.

Away across the road the woods beyond Ham and Petersham were still

afire. Twickenham was uninjured by either Heat-Ray or Black Smoke, and

there were more people about here, though none could give us news. For

the most part they were like ourselves, taking advantage of a lull to

shift their quarters. I have an impression that many of the houses here

were still occupied by scared inhabitants, too frightened even for

flight. Here too the evidence of a hasty rout was abundant along the

road. I remember most vividly three smashed bicycles in a heap, pounded

into the road by the wheels of subsequent carts. We crossed Richmond

Bridge about half past eight. We hurried across the exposed bridge, of

course, but I noticed floating down the stream a number of red masses,

some many feet across. I did not know what these were—there was no time