poor, deserted babe.”

The affair being so satisfactorily concluded, Hester Prynne, with

Pearl, departed from the house. As they descended the steps, it is

averred that the lattice of a chamber-window was thrown open, and

forth into the sunny day was thrust the face of Mistress Hibbins,

Governor Bellingham’s bitter-tempered sister, and the same who, a few

years later, was executed as a witch.

“Hist, hist!” said she, while her ill-omened physiognomy seemed to

cast a shadow over the cheerful newness of the house. “Wilt thou go

with us to-night? There will be a merry company in the forest; and I

wellnigh promised the Black Man that comely Hester Prynne should make

one.”

“Make my excuse to him, so please you!” answered Hester, with a

triumphant smile. “I must tarry at home, and keep watch over my little

Pearl. Had they taken her from me, I would willingly have gone with

thee into the forest, and signed my name in the Black Man’s book too,

and that with mine own blood!”

“We shall have thee there anon!” said the witch-lady, frowning, as she

drew back her head.

But here—if we suppose this interview betwixt Mistress Hibbins and

Hester Prynne to be authentic, and not a parable—was already an

illustration of the young minister’s argument against sundering the

relation of a fallen mother to the offspring of her frailty. Even thus

early had the child saved her from Satan’s snare.

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 IX.

 THE LEECH.

Under the appellation of Roger Chillingworth, the reader will

remember, was hidden another name, which its former wearer had

resolved should never more be spoken. It has been related, how, in the

crowd that witnessed Hester Prynne’s ignominious exposure, stood a

man, elderly, travel-worn, who, just emerging from the perilous

wilderness, beheld the woman, in whom he hoped to find embodied the

warmth and cheerfulness of home, set up as a type of sin before the

people. Her matronly fame was trodden under all men’s feet. Infamy was

babbling around her in the public market-place. For her kindred,

should the tidings ever reach them, and for the companions of her

unspotted life, there remained nothing but the contagion of her

dishonor; which would not fail to be distributed in strict accordance

and proportion with the intimacy and sacredness of their previous

relationship. Then why—since the choice was with himself—should the

individual, whose connection with the fallen woman had been the most

intimate and sacred of them all, come forward to vindicate his claim

to an inheritance so little desirable? He resolved not to be pilloried

beside her on her pedestal of shame. Unknown to all but Hester Prynne,

and possessing the lock and key of her silence, he chose to withdraw

his name from the roll of mankind, and, as regarded his former ties

and interests, to vanish out of life as completely as if he indeed lay

at the bottom of the ocean, whither rumor had long ago consigned him.

This purpose once effected, new interests would immediately spring up,

and likewise a new purpose; dark, it is true, if not guilty, but of

force enough to engage the full strength of his faculties.

In pursuance of this resolve, he took up his residence in the Puritan

town, as Roger Chillingworth, without other introduction than the

learning and intelligence of which he possessed more than a common

measure. As his studies, at a previous period of his life, had made

him extensively acquainted with the medical science of the day, it was

as a physician that he presented himself, and as such was cordially

received. Skilful men, of the medical and chirurgical profession, were

of rare occurrence in the colony. They seldom, it would appear,

partook of the religious zeal that brought other emigrants across the

Atlantic. In their researches into the human frame, it may be that the

higher and more subtile faculties of such men were materialized, and

that they lost the spiritual view of existence amid the intricacies of

that wondrous mechanism, which seemed to involve art enough to

comprise all of life within itself. At all events, the health of the

good town of Boston, so far as medicine had aught to do with it, had

hitherto lain in the guardianship of an aged deacon and apothecary,

whose piety and godly deportment were stronger testimonials in his

favor than any that he could have produced in the shape of a diploma.

The only surgeon was one who combined the occasional exercise of that

noble art with the daily and habitual flourish of a razor. To such a

professional body Roger Chillingworth was a brilliant acquisition. He

soon manifested his familiarity with the ponderous and imposing

machinery of antique physic; in which every remedy contained a

multitude of far-fetched and heterogeneous ingredients, as elaborately

compounded as if the proposed result had been the Elixir of Life. In