 Iul. Where is my Mother?

Why she is within, where should she be?

How odly thou repli'st:

Your Loue saies like an honest Gentleman:

Where is your Mother?

 Nur. O Gods Lady deare,

Are you so hot? marrie come vp I trow,

Is this the Poultis for my aking bones?

Henceforward do your messages your selfe

 Iul. Heere's such a coile, come what saies Romeo?

 Nur. Haue you got leaue to go to shift to day?

 Iul. I haue

 Nur. Then high you hence to Frier Lawrence Cell,

There staies a Husband to make you a wife:

Now comes the wanton bloud vp in your cheekes,

Thei'le be in Scarlet straight at any newes:

Hie you to Church, I must an other way,

To fetch a Ladder by the which your Loue

Must climde a birds nest Soone when it is darke:

I am the drudge, and toile in your delight:

But you shall beare the burthen soone at night.

Go Ile to dinner, hie you to the Cell

 Iul. Hie to high Fortune, honest Nurse, farewell.

Exeunt.

Enter Frier and Romeo.

 Fri. So smile the heauens vpon this holy act,

That after houres, with sorrow chide vs not

 Rom. Amen, amen, but come what sorrow can,

It cannot counteruaile the exchange of ioy

That one short minute giues me in her sight:

Do thou but close our hands with holy words.

Then Loue-deuouring death do what he dare,

It is inough. I may call her mine

 Fri. These violent delights haue violent endes,

And in their triumph: die like fire and powder;

Which as they kisse consume. The sweetest honey

Is loathsome in his owne deliciousnesse,

And in the taste confoundes the appetite.

Therefore Loue moderately, long Loue doth so,

Too swift arriues as tardie as too slow.

Enter Iuliet.

Here comes the Lady. Oh so light a foot

Will nere weare out the euerlasting flint,

A Louer may bestride the Gossamours,

That ydles in the wanton Summer ayre,

And yet not fall, so light is vanitie

 Iul. Good euen to my ghostly Confessor

 Fri. Romeo shall thanke thee Daughter for vs both

 Iul. As much to him, else in his thanks too much

 Fri. Ah Iuliet, if the measure of thy ioy

Be heapt like mine, and that thy skill be more

To blason it, then sweeten with thy breath

This neighbour ayre, and let rich musickes tongue,

Vnfold the imagin'd happinesse that both

Receiue in either, by this deere encounter

 Iul. Conceit more rich in matter then in words,

Brags of his substance, not of Ornament:

They are but beggers that can count their worth,

But my true Loue is growne to such excesse,

I cannot sum vp some of halfe my wealth

 Fri. Come, come with me, & we will make short worke,

For by your leaues, you shall not stay alone,

Till holy Church incorporate two in one.

Enter Mercutio, Benuolio, and men.

 Ben. I pray thee good Mercutio lets retire,

The day is hot, the Capulets abroad:

And if we meet, we shal not scape a brawle, for now these

hot dayes, is the mad blood stirring

 Mer. Thou art like one of these fellowes, that when he

enters the confines of a Tauerne, claps me his Sword vpon

the Table, and sayes, God send me no need of thee: and by

the operation of the second cup, drawes him on the Drawer,

when indeed there is no need

 Ben. Am I like such a Fellow?

 Mer. Come, come, thou art as hot a Iacke in thy mood,

as any in Italie: and assoone moued to be moodie, and assoone

moodie to be mou'd