Arthur bent and kissed her, and then we sent him and Quincey out of the

tomb; the Professor and I sawed the top off the stake, leaving the point

of it in the body. Then we cut off the head and filled the mouth with

garlic. We soldered up the leaden coffin, screwed on the coffin-lid,

and gathering up our belongings, came away. When the Professor locked

the door he gave the key to Arthur.

Outside the air was sweet, the sun shone, and the birds sang, and it

seemed as if all nature were tuned to a different pitch. There was

gladness and mirth and peace everywhere, for we were at rest ourselves

on one account, and we were glad, though it was with a tempered joy.

Before we moved away Van Helsing said:--

“Now, my friends, one step of our work is done, one the most harrowing

to ourselves. But there remains a greater task: to find out the author

of all this our sorrow and to stamp him out. I have clues which we can

follow; but it is a long task, and a difficult, and there is danger in

it, and pain. Shall you not all help me? We have learned to believe, all

of us--is it not so? And since so, do we not see our duty? Yes! And do

we not promise to go on to the bitter end?”

Each in turn, we took his hand, and the promise was made. Then said the

Professor as we moved off:--

“Two nights hence you shall meet with me and dine together at seven of

the clock with friend John. I shall entreat two others, two that you

know not as yet; and I shall be ready to all our work show and our plans

unfold. Friend John, you come with me home, for I have much to consult

about, and you can help me. To-night I leave for Amsterdam, but shall

return to-morrow night. And then begins our great quest. But first I

shall have much to say, so that you may know what is to do and to dread.

Then our promise shall be made to each other anew; for there is a

terrible task before us, and once our feet are on the ploughshare we

must not draw back.”

CHAPTER XVII

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY--_continued_

When we arrived at the Berkeley Hotel, Van Helsing found a telegram

waiting for him:--

 “Am coming up by train. Jonathan at Whitby. Important news.--MINA

 HARKER.”

The Professor was delighted. “Ah, that wonderful Madam Mina,” he said,

“pearl among women! She arrive, but I cannot stay. She must go to your

house, friend John. You must meet her at the station. Telegraph her _en

route_, so that she may be prepared.”

When the wire was despatched he had a cup of tea; over it he told me of

a diary kept by Jonathan Harker when abroad, and gave me a typewritten

copy of it, as also of Mrs. Harker’s diary at Whitby. “Take these,” he

said, “and study them well. When I have returned you will be master of

all the facts, and we can then better enter on our inquisition. Keep

them safe, for there is in them much of treasure. You will need all your

faith, even you who have had such an experience as that of to-day. What

is here told,” he laid his hand heavily and gravely on the packet of

papers as he spoke, “may be the beginning of the end to you and me and

many another; or it may sound the knell of the Un-Dead who walk the

earth. Read all, I pray you, with the open mind; and if you can add in

any way to the story here told do so, for it is all-important. You have

kept diary of all these so strange things; is it not so? Yes! Then we

shall go through all these together when we meet.” He then made ready

for his departure, and shortly after drove off to Liverpool Street. I

took my way to Paddington, where I arrived about fifteen minutes before

the train came in.

The crowd melted away, after the bustling fashion common to arrival

platforms; and I was beginning to feel uneasy, lest I might miss my

guest, when a sweet-faced, dainty-looking girl stepped up to me, and,

after a quick glance, said: “Dr. Seward, is it not?”

“And you are Mrs. Harker!” I answered at once; whereupon she held out

her hand.

“I knew you from the description of poor dear Lucy; but----” She stopped