dominant spirit asserted itself. In all our hunting parties and

adventures in different parts of the world, Quincey Morris had always

been the one to arrange the plan of action, and Arthur and I had been

accustomed to obey him implicitly. Now, the old habit seemed to be

renewed instinctively. With a swift glance around the room, he at once

laid out our plan of attack, and, without speaking a word, with a

gesture, placed us each in position. Van Helsing, Harker, and I were

just behind the door, so that when it was opened the Professor could

guard it whilst we two stepped between the incomer and the door.

Godalming behind and Quincey in front stood just out of sight ready to

move in front of the window. We waited in a suspense that made the

seconds pass with nightmare slowness. The slow, careful steps came along

the hall; the Count was evidently prepared for some surprise--at least

he feared it.

Suddenly with a single bound he leaped into the room, winning a way past

us before any of us could raise a hand to stay him. There was something

so panther-like in the movement--something so unhuman, that it seemed

to sober us all from the shock of his coming. The first to act was

Harker, who, with a quick movement, threw himself before the door

leading into the room in the front of the house. As the Count saw us, a

horrible sort of snarl passed over his face, showing the eye-teeth long

and pointed; but the evil smile as quickly passed into a cold stare of

lion-like disdain. His expression again changed as, with a single

impulse, we all advanced upon him. It was a pity that we had not some

better organised plan of attack, for even at the moment I wondered what

we were to do. I did not myself know whether our lethal weapons would

avail us anything. Harker evidently meant to try the matter, for he had

ready his great Kukri knife and made a fierce and sudden cut at him. The

blow was a powerful one; only the diabolical quickness of the Count’s

leap back saved him. A second less and the trenchant blade had shorne

through his heart. As it was, the point just cut the cloth of his coat,

making a wide gap whence a bundle of bank-notes and a stream of gold

fell out. The expression of the Count’s face was so hellish, that for a

moment I feared for Harker, though I saw him throw the terrible knife

aloft again for another stroke. Instinctively I moved forward with a

protective impulse, holding the Crucifix and Wafer in my left hand. I

felt a mighty power fly along my arm; and it was without surprise that I

saw the monster cower back before a similar movement made spontaneously

by each one of us. It would be impossible to describe the expression of

hate and baffled malignity--of anger and hellish rage--which came over

the Count’s face. His waxen hue became greenish-yellow by the contrast

of his burning eyes, and the red scar on the forehead showed on the

pallid skin like a palpitating wound. The next instant, with a sinuous

dive he swept under Harker’s arm, ere his blow could fall, and, grasping

a handful of the money from the floor, dashed across the room, threw

himself at the window. Amid the crash and glitter of the falling glass,

he tumbled into the flagged area below. Through the sound of the

shivering glass I could hear the “ting” of the gold, as some of the

sovereigns fell on the flagging.

We ran over and saw him spring unhurt from the ground. He, rushing up

the steps, crossed the flagged yard, and pushed open the stable door.

There he turned and spoke to us:--

“You think to baffle me, you--with your pale faces all in a row, like

sheep in a butcher’s. You shall be sorry yet, each one of you! You think

you have left me without a place to rest; but I have more. My revenge is

just begun! I spread it over centuries, and time is on my side. Your

girls that you all love are mine already; and through them you and

others shall yet be mine--my creatures, to do my bidding and to be my

jackals when I want to feed. Bah!” With a contemptuous sneer, he passed

quickly through the door, and we heard the rusty bolt creak as he

fastened it behind him. A door beyond opened and shut. The first of us

to speak was the Professor, as, realising the difficulty of following

him through the stable, we moved toward the hall.

“We have learnt something--much! Notwithstanding his brave words, he