of great fires took place, which made terrible havoc on five separate

occasions. At the very beginning of the seventeenth century it underwent

a siege of three weeks and lost 13,000 people, the casualties of war

proper being assisted by famine and disease.

Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden Krone Hotel, which I

found, to my great delight, to be thoroughly old-fashioned, for of

course I wanted to see all I could of the ways of the country. I was

evidently expected, for when I got near the door I faced a

cheery-looking elderly woman in the usual peasant dress--white

undergarment with long double apron, front, and back, of coloured stuff

fitting almost too tight for modesty. When I came close she bowed and

said, “The Herr Englishman?” “Yes,” I said, “Jonathan Harker.” She

smiled, and gave some message to an elderly man in white shirt-sleeves,

who had followed her to the door. He went, but immediately returned with

a letter:--

 “My Friend.--Welcome to the Carpathians. I am anxiously expecting

 you. Sleep well to-night. At three to-morrow the diligence will

 start for Bukovina; a place on it is kept for you. At the Borgo

 Pass my carriage will await you and will bring you to me. I trust

 that your journey from London has been a happy one, and that you

 will enjoy your stay in my beautiful land.

“Your friend,

“DRACULA.”

_4 May._--I found that my landlord had got a letter from the Count,

directing him to secure the best place on the coach for me; but on

making inquiries as to details he seemed somewhat reticent, and

pretended that he could not understand my German. This could not be

true, because up to then he had understood it perfectly; at least, he

answered my questions exactly as if he did. He and his wife, the old

lady who had received me, looked at each other in a frightened sort of

way. He mumbled out that the money had been sent in a letter, and that

was all he knew. When I asked him if he knew Count Dracula, and could

tell me anything of his castle, both he and his wife crossed themselves,

and, saying that they knew nothing at all, simply refused to speak

further. It was so near the time of starting that I had no time to ask

any one else, for it was all very mysterious and not by any means

comforting.

Just before I was leaving, the old lady came up to my room and said in a

very hysterical way:

“Must you go? Oh! young Herr, must you go?” She was in such an excited

state that she seemed to have lost her grip of what German she knew, and

mixed it all up with some other language which I did not know at all. I

was just able to follow her by asking many questions. When I told her

that I must go at once, and that I was engaged on important business,

she asked again:

“Do you know what day it is?” I answered that it was the fourth of May.

She shook her head as she said again:

“Oh, yes! I know that! I know that, but do you know what day it is?” On

my saying that I did not understand, she went on:

“It is the eve of St. George’s Day. Do you not know that to-night, when

the clock strikes midnight, all the evil things in the world will have

full sway? Do you know where you are going, and what you are going to?”

She was in such evident distress that I tried to comfort her, but

without effect. Finally she went down on her knees and implored me not

to go; at least to wait a day or two before starting. It was all very

ridiculous but I did not feel comfortable. However, there was business

to be done, and I could allow nothing to interfere with it. I therefore

tried to raise her up, and said, as gravely as I could, that I thanked

her, but my duty was imperative, and that I must go. She then rose and

dried her eyes, and taking a crucifix from her neck offered it to me. I

did not know what to do, for, as an English Churchman, I have been

taught to regard such things as in some measure idolatrous, and yet it

seemed so ungracious to refuse an old lady meaning so well and in such a

state of mind. She saw, I suppose, the doubt in my face, for she put the

rosary round my neck, and said, “For your mother’s sake,” and went out

of the room. I am writing up this part of the diary whilst I am waiting

for the coach, which is, of course, late; and the crucifix is still

round my neck. Whether it is the old lady’s fear, or the many ghostly