said. “Madness were easy to bear compared with truth like this. Oh, my

friend, why, think you, did I go so far round, why take so long to tell

you so simple a thing? Was it because I hate you and have hated you all

my life? Was it because I wished to give you pain? Was it that I wanted,

now so late, revenge for that time when you saved my life, and from a

fearful death? Ah no!”

“Forgive me,” said I. He went on:--

“My friend, it was because I wished to be gentle in the breaking to you,

for I know you have loved that so sweet lady. But even yet I do not

expect you to believe. It is so hard to accept at once any abstract

truth, that we may doubt such to be possible when we have always

believed the ‘no’ of it; it is more hard still to accept so sad a

concrete truth, and of such a one as Miss Lucy. To-night I go to prove

it. Dare you come with me?”

This staggered me. A man does not like to prove such a truth; Byron

excepted from the category, jealousy.

 “And prove the very truth he most abhorred.”

He saw my hesitation, and spoke:--

“The logic is simple, no madman’s logic this time, jumping from tussock

to tussock in a misty bog. If it be not true, then proof will be relief;

at worst it will not harm. If it be true! Ah, there is the dread; yet

very dread should help my cause, for in it is some need of belief. Come,

I tell you what I propose: first, that we go off now and see that child

in the hospital. Dr. Vincent, of the North Hospital, where the papers

say the child is, is friend of mine, and I think of yours since you were

in class at Amsterdam. He will let two scientists see his case, if he

will not let two friends. We shall tell him nothing, but only that we

wish to learn. And then----”

“And then?” He took a key from his pocket and held it up. “And then we

spend the night, you and I, in the churchyard where Lucy lies. This is

the key that lock the tomb. I had it from the coffin-man to give to

Arthur.” My heart sank within me, for I felt that there was some fearful

ordeal before us. I could do nothing, however, so I plucked up what

heart I could and said that we had better hasten, as the afternoon was

passing....

We found the child awake. It had had a sleep and taken some food, and

altogether was going on well. Dr. Vincent took the bandage from its

throat, and showed us the punctures. There was no mistaking the

similarity to those which had been on Lucy’s throat. They were smaller,

and the edges looked fresher; that was all. We asked Vincent to what he

attributed them, and he replied that it must have been a bite of some

animal, perhaps a rat; but, for his own part, he was inclined to think

that it was one of the bats which are so numerous on the northern

heights of London. “Out of so many harmless ones,” he said, “there may

be some wild specimen from the South of a more malignant species. Some

sailor may have brought one home, and it managed to escape; or even from

the Zoölogical Gardens a young one may have got loose, or one be bred

there from a vampire. These things do occur, you know. Only ten days ago

a wolf got out, and was, I believe, traced up in this direction. For a

week after, the children were playing nothing but Red Riding Hood on the

Heath and in every alley in the place until this ‘bloofer lady’ scare

came along, since when it has been quite a gala-time with them. Even

this poor little mite, when he woke up to-day, asked the nurse if he

might go away. When she asked him why he wanted to go, he said he wanted

to play with the ‘bloofer lady.’”

“I hope,” said Van Helsing, “that when you are sending the child home

you will caution its parents to keep strict watch over it. These fancies

to stray are most dangerous; and if the child were to remain out another

night, it would probably be fatal. But in any case I suppose you will

not let it away for some days?”

“Certainly not, not for a week at least; longer if the wound is not