the ground, callous as a devil, the child that up to now she had

clutched strenuously to her breast, growling over it as a dog growls

over a bone. The child gave a sharp cry, and lay there moaning. There

was a cold-bloodedness in the act which wrung a groan from Arthur; when

she advanced to him with outstretched arms and a wanton smile he fell

back and hid his face in his hands.

She still advanced, however, and with a languorous, voluptuous grace,

said:--

“Come to me, Arthur. Leave these others and come to me. My arms are

hungry for you. Come, and we can rest together. Come, my husband, come!”

There was something diabolically sweet in her tones--something of the

tingling of glass when struck--which rang through the brains even of us

who heard the words addressed to another. As for Arthur, he seemed under

a spell; moving his hands from his face, he opened wide his arms. She

was leaping for them, when Van Helsing sprang forward and held between

them his little golden crucifix. She recoiled from it, and, with a

suddenly distorted face, full of rage, dashed past him as if to enter

the tomb.

When within a foot or two of the door, however, she stopped, as if

arrested by some irresistible force. Then she turned, and her face was

shown in the clear burst of moonlight and by the lamp, which had now no

quiver from Van Helsing’s iron nerves. Never did I see such baffled

malice on a face; and never, I trust, shall such ever be seen again by

mortal eyes. The beautiful colour became livid, the eyes seemed to throw

out sparks of hell-fire, the brows were wrinkled as though the folds of

the flesh were the coils of Medusa’s snakes, and the lovely,

blood-stained mouth grew to an open square, as in the passion masks of

the Greeks and Japanese. If ever a face meant death--if looks could

kill--we saw it at that moment.

And so for full half a minute, which seemed an eternity, she remained

between the lifted crucifix and the sacred closing of her means of

entry. Van Helsing broke the silence by asking Arthur:--

“Answer me, oh my friend! Am I to proceed in my work?”

Arthur threw himself on his knees, and hid his face in his hands, as he

answered:--

“Do as you will, friend; do as you will. There can be no horror like

this ever any more;” and he groaned in spirit. Quincey and I

simultaneously moved towards him, and took his arms. We could hear the

click of the closing lantern as Van Helsing held it down; coming close

to the tomb, he began to remove from the chinks some of the sacred

emblem which he had placed there. We all looked on in horrified

amazement as we saw, when he stood back, the woman, with a corporeal

body as real at that moment as our own, pass in through the interstice

where scarce a knife-blade could have gone. We all felt a glad sense of

relief when we saw the Professor calmly restoring the strings of putty

to the edges of the door.

When this was done, he lifted the child and said:

“Come now, my friends; we can do no more till to-morrow. There is a

funeral at noon, so here we shall all come before long after that. The

friends of the dead will all be gone by two, and when the sexton lock

the gate we shall remain. Then there is more to do; but not like this of

to-night. As for this little one, he is not much harm, and by to-morrow

night he shall be well. We shall leave him where the police will find

him, as on the other night; and then to home.” Coming close to Arthur,

he said:--

“My friend Arthur, you have had a sore trial; but after, when you look

back, you will see how it was necessary. You are now in the bitter

waters, my child. By this time to-morrow you will, please God, have

passed them, and have drunk of the sweet waters; so do not mourn

overmuch. Till then I shall not ask you to forgive me.”

Arthur and Quincey came home with me, and we tried to cheer each other

on the way. We had left the child in safety, and were tired; so we all

slept with more or less reality of sleep.

 * * * * *

_29 September, night._--A little before twelve o’clock we three--Arthur,

Quincey Morris, and myself--called for the Professor. It was odd to

notice that by common consent we had all put on black clothes. Of

course, Arthur wore black, for he was in deep mourning, but the rest of