to matrimony, in a moment. I knew you would be wishing me joy.”

“Nay, if you are so serious about it, I shall consider the matter as

absolutely settled. You will have a charming mother-in-law, indeed, and

of course she will be always at Pemberley with you.”

He listened to her with perfect indifference, while she chose to

entertain herself in this manner; and as his composure convinced her

that all was safe, her wit flowed along.

[Illustration:

 “A note for Miss Bennet”

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

CHAPTER VII.

[Illustration]

Mr. Bennet’s property consisted almost entirely in an estate of two

thousand a year, which, unfortunately for his daughters, was entailed,

in default of heirs male, on a distant relation; and their mother’s

fortune, though ample for her situation in life, could but ill supply

the deficiency of his. Her father had been an attorney in Meryton, and

had left her four thousand pounds.

She had a sister married to a Mr. Philips, who had been a clerk to their

father and succeeded him in the business, and a brother settled in

London in a respectable line of trade.

The village of Longbourn was only one mile from Meryton; a most

convenient distance for the young ladies, who were usually tempted

thither three or four times a week, to pay their duty to their aunt, and

to a milliner’s shop just over the way. The two youngest of the family,

Catherine and Lydia, were particularly frequent in these attentions:

their minds were more vacant than their sisters’, and when nothing

better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning

hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and, however bare of

news the country in general might be, they always contrived to learn

some from their aunt. At present, indeed, they were well supplied both

with news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in

the neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was

the head-quarters.

Their visits to Mrs. Philips were now productive of the most interesting

intelligence. Every day added something to their knowledge of the

officers’ names and connections. Their lodgings were not long a secret,

and at length they began to know the officers themselves. Mr. Philips

visited them all, and this opened to his nieces a source of felicity

unknown before. They could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr.

Bingley’s large fortune, the mention of which gave animation to their

mother, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regimentals of

an ensign.

After listening one morning to their effusions on this subject, Mr.

Bennet coolly observed,--

“From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two

of the silliest girls in the country. I have suspected it some time, but

I am now convinced.”

Catherine was disconcerted, and made no answer; but Lydia, with perfect

indifference, continued to express her admiration of Captain Carter, and

her hope of seeing him in the course of the day, as he was going the

next morning to London.

“I am astonished, my dear,” said Mrs. Bennet, “that you should be so

ready to think your own children silly. If I wished to think slightingly

of anybody’s children, it should not be of my own, however.”

“If my children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of it.”

“Yes; but as it happens, they are all of them very clever.”

“This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not agree. I

had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but I must

so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly

foolish.”

“My dear Mr. Bennet, you must not expect such girls to have the sense of

their father and mother. When they get to our age, I dare say they will

not think about officers any more than we do. I remember the time when I

liked a red coat myself very well--and, indeed, so I do still at my

heart; and if a smart young colonel, with five or six thousand a year,

should want one of my girls, I shall not say nay to him; and I thought

Colonel Forster looked very becoming the other night at Sir William’s in

his regimentals.”

“Mamma,” cried Lydia, “my aunt says that Colonel Forster and Captain

Carter do not go so often to Miss Watson’s as they did when they first

came; she sees them now very often standing in Clarke’s library.”

Mrs. Bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with a

note for Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and the servant waited

for an answer. Mrs. Bennet’s eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was

eagerly calling out, while her daughter read,--

“Well, Jane, who is it from? What is it about? What does he say? Well,

Jane, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love.”

“It is from Miss Bingley,” said Jane, and then read it aloud.

 /* NIND “My dear friend, */

 “If you are not so compassionate as to dine to-day with Louisa and