“You loved her too, old fellow; she told me all about it, and there was

no friend had a closer place in her heart than you. I don’t know how to

thank you for all you have done for her. I can’t think yet....”

Here he suddenly broke down, and threw his arms round my shoulders and

laid his head on my breast, crying:--

“Oh, Jack! Jack! What shall I do! The whole of life seems gone from me

all at once, and there is nothing in the wide world for me to live for.”

I comforted him as well as I could. In such cases men do not need much

expression. A grip of the hand, the tightening of an arm over the

shoulder, a sob in unison, are expressions of sympathy dear to a man’s

heart. I stood still and silent till his sobs died away, and then I said

softly to him:--

“Come and look at her.”

Together we moved over to the bed, and I lifted the lawn from her face.

God! how beautiful she was. Every hour seemed to be enhancing her

loveliness. It frightened and amazed me somewhat; and as for Arthur, he

fell a-trembling, and finally was shaken with doubt as with an ague. At

last, after a long pause, he said to me in a faint whisper:--

“Jack, is she really dead?”

I assured him sadly that it was so, and went on to suggest--for I felt

that such a horrible doubt should not have life for a moment longer than

I could help--that it often happened that after death faces became

softened and even resolved into their youthful beauty; that this was

especially so when death had been preceded by any acute or prolonged

suffering. It seemed to quite do away with any doubt, and, after

kneeling beside the couch for a while and looking at her lovingly and

long, he turned aside. I told him that that must be good-bye, as the

coffin had to be prepared; so he went back and took her dead hand in his

and kissed it, and bent over and kissed her forehead. He came away,

fondly looking back over his shoulder at her as he came.

I left him in the drawing-room, and told Van Helsing that he had said

good-bye; so the latter went to the kitchen to tell the undertaker’s men

to proceed with the preparations and to screw up the coffin. When he

came out of the room again I told him of Arthur’s question, and he

replied:--

“I am not surprised. Just now I doubted for a moment myself!”

We all dined together, and I could see that poor Art was trying to make

the best of things. Van Helsing had been silent all dinner-time; but

when we had lit our cigars he said--

“Lord----”; but Arthur interrupted him:--

“No, no, not that, for God’s sake! not yet at any rate. Forgive me, sir:

I did not mean to speak offensively; it is only because my loss is so

recent.”

The Professor answered very sweetly:--

“I only used that name because I was in doubt. I must not call you

‘Mr.,’ and I have grown to love you--yes, my dear boy, to love you--as

Arthur.”

Arthur held out his hand, and took the old man’s warmly.

“Call me what you will,” he said. “I hope I may always have the title of

a friend. And let me say that I am at a loss for words to thank you for

your goodness to my poor dear.” He paused a moment, and went on: “I know

that she understood your goodness even better than I do; and if I was

rude or in any way wanting at that time you acted so--you remember”--the

Professor nodded--“you must forgive me.”

He answered with a grave kindness:--

“I know it was hard for you to quite trust me then, for to trust such

violence needs to understand; and I take it that you do not--that you

cannot--trust me now, for you do not yet understand. And there may be

more times when I shall want you to trust when you cannot--and may

not--and must not yet understand. But the time will come when your trust

shall be whole and complete in me, and when you shall understand as

though the sunlight himself shone through. Then you shall bless me from

first to last for your own sake, and for the sake of others and for her

dear sake to whom I swore to protect.”

“And, indeed, indeed, sir,” said Arthur warmly, “I shall in all ways

trust you. I know and believe you have a very noble heart, and you are

Jack’s friend, and you were hers. You shall do what you like.”

The Professor cleared his throat a couple of times, as though about to

speak, and finally said:--

“May I ask you something now?”

“Certainly.”