respect of grace and beauty, there were points well worth noting. A

ray of humor, now and then, would make its way through the veil of dim

obstruction, and glimmer pleasantly upon our faces. A trait of native

elegance, seldom seen in the masculine character after childhood or

early youth, was shown in the General’s fondness for the sight and

fragrance of flowers. An old soldier might be supposed to prize only

the bloody laurel on his brow; but here was one who seemed to have a

young girl’s appreciation of the floral tribe.

There, beside the fireplace, the brave old General used to sit; while

the Surveyor—though seldom, when it could be avoided, taking upon

himself the difficult task of engaging him in conversation—was fond

of standing at a distance, and watching his quiet and almost

slumberous countenance. He seemed away from us, although we saw him

but a few yards off; remote, though we passed close beside his chair;

unattainable, though we might have stretched forth our hands and

touched his own. It might be that he lived a more real life within

his thoughts, than amid the unappropriate environment of the

Collector’s office. The evolutions of the parade; the tumult of the

battle; the flourish of old, heroic music, heard thirty years

before;—such scenes and sounds, perhaps, were all alive before his

intellectual sense. Meanwhile, the merchants and shipmasters, the

spruce clerks and uncouth sailors, entered and departed; the bustle of

this commercial and custom-house life kept up its little murmur round

about him; and neither with the men nor their affairs did the General

appear to sustain the most distant relation. He was as much out of

place as an old sword—now rusty, but which had flashed once in the

battle’s front, and showed still a bright gleam along its blade—would

have been, among the inkstands, paper-folders, and mahogany rulers, on

the Deputy Collector’s desk.

There was one thing that much aided me in renewing and re-creating the

stalwart soldier of the Niagara frontier,—the man of true and simple

energy. It was the recollection of those memorable words of

his,—“I’ll try, Sir!”—spoken on the very verge of a desperate and

heroic enterprise, and breathing the soul and spirit of New England

hardihood, comprehending all perils, and encountering all. If, in our

country, valor were rewarded by heraldic honor, this phrase—which it

seems so easy to speak, but which only he, with such a task of danger

and glory before him, has ever spoken—would be the best and fittest

of all mottoes for the General’s shield of arms.

It contributes greatly towards a man’s moral and intellectual health,

to be brought into habits of companionship with individuals unlike

himself, who care little for his pursuits, and whose sphere and

abilities he must go out of himself to appreciate. The accidents of

my life have often afforded me this advantage, but never with more

fulness and variety than during my continuance in office. There was

one man, especially, the observation of whose character gave me a new

idea of talent. His gifts were emphatically those of a man of

business; prompt, acute, clear-minded; with an eye that saw through

all perplexities, and a faculty of arrangement that made them vanish,

as by the waving of an enchanter’s wand. Bred up from boyhood in the

Custom-House, it was his proper field of activity; and the many

intricacies of business, so harassing to the interloper, presented

themselves before him with the regularity of a perfectly comprehended

system. In my contemplation, he stood as the ideal of his class. He

was, indeed, the Custom-House in himself; or, at all events, the

main-spring that kept its variously revolving wheels in motion; for,

in an institution like this, where its officers are appointed to

subserve their own profit and convenience, and seldom with a leading

reference to their fitness for the duty to be performed, they must

perforce seek elsewhere the dexterity which is not in them. Thus, by

an inevitable necessity, as a magnet attracts steel-filings, so did

our man of business draw to himself the difficulties which everybody

met with. With an easy condescension, and kind forbearance towards our

stupidity,—which, to his order of mind, must have seemed little short

of crime,—would he forthwith, by the merest touch of his finger, make

the incomprehensible as clear as daylight. The merchants valued him

not less than we, his esoteric friends. His integrity was perfect: it

was a law of nature with him, rather than a choice or a principle; nor

can it be otherwise than the main condition of an intellect so

remarkably clear and accurate as his, to be honest and regular in the

administration of affairs. A stain on his conscience, as to anything

that came within the range of his vocation, would trouble such a man

very much in the same way, though to a far greater degree, that an

error in the balance of an account or an ink-blot on the fair page of

a book of record. Here, in a word,—and it is a rare instance in my

life,—I had met with a person thoroughly adapted to the situation

which he held.