to imagine “boilers on stilts” a hundred feet high.

There were one or two cartloads of refugees passing along Oxford

Street, and several in the Marylebone Road, but so slowly was the news

spreading that Regent Street and Portland Place were full of their

usual Sunday-night promenaders, albeit they talked in groups, and along

the edge of Regent’s Park there were as many silent couples “walking

out” together under the scattered gas lamps as ever there had been. The

night was warm and still, and a little oppressive; the sound of guns

continued intermittently, and after midnight there seemed to be sheet

lightning in the south.

He read and re-read the paper, fearing the worst had happened to me. He

was restless, and after supper prowled out again aimlessly. He returned

and tried in vain to divert his attention to his examination notes. He

went to bed a little after midnight, and was awakened from lurid dreams

in the small hours of Monday by the sound of door knockers, feet

running in the street, distant drumming, and a clamour of bells. Red

reflections danced on the ceiling. For a moment he lay astonished,

wondering whether day had come or the world gone mad. Then he jumped

out of bed and ran to the window.

His room was an attic and as he thrust his head out, up and down the

street there were a dozen echoes to the noise of his window sash, and

heads in every kind of night disarray appeared. Enquiries were being

shouted. “They are coming!” bawled a policeman, hammering at the door;

“the Martians are coming!” and hurried to the next door.

The sound of drumming and trumpeting came from the Albany Street

Barracks, and every church within earshot was hard at work killing

sleep with a vehement disorderly tocsin. There was a noise of doors

opening, and window after window in the houses opposite flashed from

darkness into yellow illumination.

Up the street came galloping a closed carriage, bursting abruptly into

noise at the corner, rising to a clattering climax under the window,

and dying away slowly in the distance. Close on the rear of this came a

couple of cabs, the forerunners of a long procession of flying

vehicles, going for the most part to Chalk Farm station, where the

North-Western special trains were loading up, instead of coming down

the gradient into Euston.

For a long time my brother stared out of the window in blank

astonishment, watching the policemen hammering at door after door, and

delivering their incomprehensible message. Then the door behind him

opened, and the man who lodged across the landing came in, dressed only

in shirt, trousers, and slippers, his braces loose about his waist, his

hair disordered from his pillow.

“What the devil is it?” he asked. “A fire? What a devil of a row!”

They both craned their heads out of the window, straining to hear what

the policemen were shouting. People were coming out of the side

streets, and standing in groups at the corners talking.

“What the devil is it all about?” said my brother’s fellow lodger.

My brother answered him vaguely and began to dress, running with each

garment to the window in order to miss nothing of the growing

excitement. And presently men selling unnaturally early newspapers came

bawling into the street:

“London in danger of suffocation! The Kingston and Richmond defences

forced! Fearful massacres in the Thames Valley!”

And all about him—in the rooms below, in the houses on each side and

across the road, and behind in the Park Terraces and in the hundred

other streets of that part of Marylebone, and the Westbourne Park

district and St. Pancras, and westward and northward in Kilburn and St.

John’s Wood and Hampstead, and eastward in Shoreditch and Highbury and

Haggerston and Hoxton, and, indeed, through all the vastness of London

from Ealing to East Ham—people were rubbing their eyes, and opening

windows to stare out and ask aimless questions, dressing hastily as the

first breath of the coming storm of Fear blew through the streets. It

was the dawn of the great panic. London, which had gone to bed on

Sunday night oblivious and inert, was awakened, in the small hours of

Monday morning, to a vivid sense of danger.

Unable from his window to learn what was happening, my brother went

down and out into the street, just as the sky between the parapets of

the houses grew pink with the early dawn. The flying people on foot and

in vehicles grew more numerous every moment. “Black Smoke!” he heard

people crying, and again “Black Smoke!” The contagion of such a

unanimous fear was inevitable. As my brother hesitated on the

door-step, he saw another newsvendor approaching, and got a paper

forthwith. The man was running away with the rest, and selling his

papers for a shilling each as he ran—a grotesque mingling of profit and

panic.