what is earthly of them be buried in my grave, and the spiritual go

with me to my eternal state, rather than that you should put your

skill to the proof in my behalf.”

“Ah,” replied Roger Chillingworth, with that quietness which, whether

imposed or natural, marked all his deportment, “it is thus that a

young clergyman is apt to speak. Youthful men, not having taken a deep

root, give up their hold of life so easily! And saintly men, who walk

with God on earth, would fain be away, to walk with him on the golden

pavements of the New Jerusalem.”

“Nay,” rejoined the young minister, putting his hand to his heart,

with a flush of pain flitting over his brow, “were I worthier to walk

there, I could be better content to toil here.”

“Good men ever interpret themselves too meanly,” said the physician.

[Illustration: The Minister and Leech]

In this manner, the mysterious old Roger Chillingworth became the

medical adviser of the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale. As not only the

disease interested the physician, but he was strongly moved to look

into the character and qualities of the patient, these two men, so

different in age, came gradually to spend much time together. For the

sake of the minister’s health, and to enable the leech to gather

plants with healing balm in them, they took long walks on the

sea-shore, or in the forest; mingling various talk with the plash and

murmur of the waves, and the solemn wind-anthem among the tree-tops.

Often, likewise, one was the guest of the other, in his place of

study and retirement. There was a fascination for the minister in the

company of the man of science, in whom he recognized an intellectual

cultivation of no moderate depth or scope; together with a range and

freedom of ideas, that he would have vainly looked for among the

members of his own profession. In truth, he was startled, if not

shocked, to find this attribute in the physician. Mr. Dimmesdale was a

true priest, a true religionist, with the reverential sentiment

largely developed, and an order of mind that impelled itself

powerfully along the track of a creed, and wore its passage

continually deeper with the lapse of time. In no state of society

would he have been what is called a man of liberal views; it would

always be essential to his peace to feel the pressure of a faith about

him, supporting, while it confined him within its iron framework. Not

the less, however, though with a tremulous enjoyment, did he feel the

occasional relief of looking at the universe through the medium of

another kind of intellect than those with which he habitually held

converse. It was as if a window were thrown open, admitting a freer

atmosphere into the close and stifled study, where his life was

wasting itself away, amid lamplight, or obstructed day-beams, and the

musty fragrance, be it sensual or moral, that exhales from books. But

the air was too fresh and chill to be long breathed with comfort. So

the minister, and the physician with him, withdrew again within the

limits of what their church defined as orthodox.

Thus Roger Chillingworth scrutinized his patient carefully, both as he

saw him in his ordinary life, keeping an accustomed pathway in the

range of thoughts familiar to him, and as he appeared when thrown

amidst other moral scenery, the novelty of which might call out

something new to the surface of his character. He deemed it essential,

it would seem, to know the man, before attempting to do him good.

Wherever there is a heart and an intellect, the diseases of the

physical frame are tinged with the peculiarities of these. In Arthur

Dimmesdale, thought and imagination were so active, and sensibility so

intense, that the bodily infirmity would be likely to have its

groundwork there. So Roger Chillingworth—the man of skill, the kind

and friendly physician—strove to go deep into his patient’s bosom,

delving among his principles, prying into his recollections, and

probing everything with a cautious touch, like a treasure-seeker in a

dark cavern. Few secrets can escape an investigator, who has

opportunity and license to undertake such a quest, and skill to follow

it up. A man burdened with a secret should especially avoid the

intimacy of his physician. If the latter possess native sagacity, and

a nameless something more,—let us call it intuition; if he show no

intrusive egotism, nor disagreeably prominent characteristics of his

own; if he have the power, which must be born with him, to bring his

mind into such affinity with his patient’s, that this last shall

unawares have spoken what he imagines himself only to have thought; if

such revelations be received without tumult, and acknowledged not so

often by an uttered sympathy as by silence, an inarticulate breath,

and here and there a word, to indicate that all is understood; if to

these qualifications of a confidant be joined the advantages afforded

by his recognized character as a physician;—then, at some inevitable

moment, will the soul of the sufferer be dissolved, and flow forth in

a dark, but transparent stream, bringing all its mysteries into the

daylight.

Roger Chillingworth possessed all, or most, of the attributes above

enumerated. Nevertheless, time went on; a kind of intimacy, as we have