circuitously away from the advances I made them. Near Roehampton I had

seen two human skeletons—not bodies, but skeletons, picked clean—and in

the wood by me I found the crushed and scattered bones of several cats

and rabbits and the skull of a sheep. But though I gnawed parts of

these in my mouth, there was nothing to be got from them.

After sunset I struggled on along the road towards Putney, where I

think the Heat-Ray must have been used for some reason. And in the

garden beyond Roehampton I got a quantity of immature potatoes,

sufficient to stay my hunger. From this garden one looked down upon

Putney and the river. The aspect of the place in the dusk was

singularly desolate: blackened trees, blackened, desolate ruins, and

down the hill the sheets of the flooded river, red-tinged with the

weed. And over all—silence. It filled me with indescribable terror to

think how swiftly that desolating change had come.

For a time I believed that mankind had been swept out of existence, and

that I stood there alone, the last man left alive. Hard by the top of

Putney Hill I came upon another skeleton, with the arms dislocated and

removed several yards from the rest of the body. As I proceeded I

became more and more convinced that the extermination of mankind was,

save for such stragglers as myself, already accomplished in this part

of the world. The Martians, I thought, had gone on and left the country

desolated, seeking food elsewhere. Perhaps even now they were

destroying Berlin or Paris, or it might be they had gone northward.

VII.

THE MAN ON PUTNEY HILL.

I spent that night in the inn that stands at the top of Putney Hill,

sleeping in a made bed for the first time since my flight to

Leatherhead. I will not tell the needless trouble I had breaking into

that house—afterwards I found the front door was on the latch—nor how I

ransacked every room for food, until just on the verge of despair, in

what seemed to me to be a servant’s bedroom, I found a rat-gnawed crust

and two tins of pineapple. The place had been already searched and

emptied. In the bar I afterwards found some biscuits and sandwiches

that had been overlooked. The latter I could not eat, they were too

rotten, but the former not only stayed my hunger, but filled my

pockets. I lit no lamps, fearing some Martian might come beating that

part of London for food in the night. Before I went to bed I had an

interval of restlessness, and prowled from window to window, peering

out for some sign of these monsters. I slept little. As I lay in bed I

found myself thinking consecutively—a thing I do not remember to have

done since my last argument with the curate. During all the intervening

time my mental condition had been a hurrying succession of vague

emotional states or a sort of stupid receptivity. But in the night my

brain, reinforced, I suppose, by the food I had eaten, grew clear

again, and I thought.

Three things struggled for possession of my mind: the killing of the

curate, the whereabouts of the Martians, and the possible fate of my

wife. The former gave me no sensation of horror or remorse to recall; I

saw it simply as a thing done, a memory infinitely disagreeable but

quite without the quality of remorse. I saw myself then as I see myself

now, driven step by step towards that hasty blow, the creature of a

sequence of accidents leading inevitably to that. I felt no

condemnation; yet the memory, static, unprogressive, haunted me. In the

silence of the night, with that sense of the nearness of God that

sometimes comes into the stillness and the darkness, I stood my trial,

my only trial, for that moment of wrath and fear. I retraced every step

of our conversation from the moment when I had found him crouching

beside me, heedless of my thirst, and pointing to the fire and smoke

that streamed up from the ruins of Weybridge. We had been incapable of

co-operation—grim chance had taken no heed of that. Had I foreseen, I

should have left him at Halliford. But I did not foresee; and crime is

to foresee and do. And I set this down as I have set all this story

down, as it was. There were no witnesses—all these things I might have

concealed. But I set it down, and the reader must form his judgment as

he will.

And when, by an effort, I had set aside that picture of a prostrate