issued. The man denied knowing anything about Bower, but the latter's

flight was evidence enough that something was wrong.

Not wishing to go to the trouble of having the man arrested merely as a

trespasser, Tom let him go after his clothes had been dried on a boiler

in one of the shops.

"Take him to the gate, and tell him if he comes back he'll get another

dose of the same kind of medicine," ordered Tom to one of the guards at

the plant, and when the latter had reported that this had been done, he

added in an earnest tone:

"He went off talking to himself and saying he'd get even with you, Mr.

Swift."

"All right," said Tom easily. "I'll be on the watch."

The young inventor made a thorough examination of his experiment shop

and the test motor. No damage seemed to have been done, and Tom began

to think he had been too quick for the conspirators, if such they were.

His plans and drawings were intact, and though Bower might have given a

copy to the stranger with the gold tooth, the latter did not take any

away with him. That he had some papers he wished to conceal and escape

with, seemed certain, but the splash into the mud hole had ended this.

No trace was found of Bower, and an effort Tom made to ascertain if the

man was a spy in the employ of Gale and Ware came to naught. The

machinist had come well recommended, and the firm where he was last

employed had nothing but good to say of him.

"Well, it's a mystery," decided Tom. "However, I got out of it pretty

well. Only if that gold-tooth individual shows up again he won't get

off so easily."

CHAPTER XI

A NIGHT TRIP

Taking a lesson from what had happened, Tom was very much more careful

in the following experiments on his new, silent motor. He made some

changes in his shop, and took Jackson in to help on the new machine,

thus insuring perfect secrecy as the apparatus developed.

Tom also changed the safe in which he kept his plans, for the one he

had used previous to the episode in which Bower and the stranger who

took the mud bath figured, was one the combination of which could

easily be ascertained by an expert. The new safe was more complicated,

and Tom felt that his plans, specifications, and formulae which he had

worked out were in less danger.

"I can just about figure out what happened," said Ned Newton to Tom,

when told of the circumstances. "These Universal people were provoked

because you wouldn't give them the benefit of your experience on their

flying machines, and so they sent a spy to get work with you. They,

perhaps, hoped to secure some of your ideas for their own, or they may

have had a deeper motive."

"What deeper motive could they have, Ned?"

"They might have hoped to disable you, or some of your machines, so that

you couldn't compete with them. They're unscrupulous, I hear, and will

do anything to succeed and make money. So be on your guard against

them."

"I will," Tom promised. "But I don't believe there's any more danger

now. Anyhow, I have to take some chances."

"Yes, but be as careful as you can. How is the silent motor coming on?"

"Pretty good. I've had a lot of failures, and the thing isn't so easy

as I at first imagined it would be. Noise is a funny thing, and I'm

just beginning to understand some of the laws of acoustics we learned

at high school. But I think I'm on the right track with the muffler and

the cutting down of the noise of the explosions in the cylinders. I'm

working both ends, you see--making a motor that doesn't cause as much

racket as those now in use, and also providing means to take care of

the noise that is made. It isn't possible to make a completely silent

motor of an explosive gas type. The only thing that can be done is to

kill the noise after it is made."

"What about the propeller blades?"

"Oh, they aren't giving me any trouble. The noise they make can't be

heard a hundred feet in the air, but I am also working on improvements

to the blades. Take it altogether, I'll have an almost silent aeroplane

if my plans come out all right."

"Have you said anything to the government yet?"

"No; I want to have it pretty well perfected before I do. Besides, I

don't want any publicity about it until I'm ready. If these Universal

people are after me I'll fool 'em."