"Oh, you can hear it all right," said Tom, as he approached the motor,

which was mounted on a testing block. "The thing isn't perfected yet,

but I hope to have it soon. Rad! Where is that black rascal? Oh, there

you are! Come here, Rad!"

"Yaas sah, Massa Tom! Is I gwine to help yo' all in dish yeah job?"

"Yes. Just take hold of this lever, and when I say so pull it as hard

as you can."

"Dat's whut I will, Massa Tom. Golly! ef dat no 'count giant was heah

now he'd see he ain't de only one whut's got muscle. I'll pull good

an' hard, Massa Tom."

"Yes, that's what I want you to. Now I guess we're all ready. Can you

see, Dad--and Ned and Mr. Damon?"

"Yes," they answered. They stood near the side wall of the shop, while

Tom and Eradicate were at the testing block, on which the motor, with

the noise-eliminating devices attached, had been temporarily mounted.

"All ready," called the young inventor, as he turned on the gas and

threw over the electrical switch. "All ready! Pull the starting lever,

Rad, and when it's been running a little I'll throw on the silencer and

you can see the difference."

The motor began to hum, and there was a deafening roar, just as there

always is when the engine of an aeroplane starts. It was as though half

a dozen automobile engines were being run with the mufflers cut out.

"Now I'll show you the difference!" yelled Tom, though such was the

noise that not a word could be heard. "This shows you what my silencer

will do."

Tom pulled another lever. There was at once a cessation of the

deafening racket, though it was not altogether ended. Then, after a

moment or two, there suddenly came a roar as though a blast had been

let off in the shop.

Tom and Eradicate were tossed backward, head over heels, as though by

the giant hands of Koku himself, and Mr. Damon, Ned, and Tom's father

saw the motor fly from the testing block and shoot through the roof of

the building with a rending, crashing, and splintering sound that could

be heard for a mile.

CHAPTER IX

AFTER A SPY

Curious as it may seem, Eradicate, the oldest and certainly not the

most energetic of the party assembled in the experiment room, was the

first to recover himself and arise. Tottering to his feet he gave one

look at the testing block, whence the motor had torn itself. Then he

looked at the prostrate figures around him, none of them hurt, but all

stunned and very much startled. Then the gaze of Eradicate traveled to

the hole in the roof. It was a gaping, ragged hole, for the motor was

heavy and the roof of flimsy material. And then the colored man

exclaimed:

"Good land ob massy! Did I do dat?"

His tone was one of such startled contrition, and so tragic, that Tom

Swift, rueful as he felt over the failure of his experiment and the

danger they had all been in, could not help laughing.

"I take it, hearing that from you, Tom, that we're all right," said Ned

Newton, as he recovered himself and brushed some dirt off his coat. Ned

was a natty dresser.

"Yes, we seem to be all right," replied Tom slowly. "I can't say what

damage the flying motor has done outside, but--"

"Bless my insurance policy! but what happened?" asked Mr. Damon. "I saw

Eradicate pull on that lever as you told him to, Tom, and then things

all went topsy-turvy! Did he pull the wrong handle?"

"No, it wasn't Rad's fault at all," said Tom. "The trouble was, as I

guess I'll find when I investigate, that I put too much power into the

motor, and the muffler didn't give any chance for the accumulated

exhaust gases to expand and escape. I didn't allow for that, and they

simply backed up, compressed and exploded. I guess that's the whole

explanation."