sun rise and set. At such times you go by my volition and not by his;

and this power to good of you and others, as you have won from your

suffering at his hands. This is now all the more precious that he know

it not, and to guard himself have even cut himself off from his

knowledge of our where. We, however, are not selfish, and we believe

that God is with us through all this blackness, and these many dark

hours. We shall follow him; and we shall not flinch; even if we peril

ourselves that we become like him. Friend John, this has been a great

hour; and it have done much to advance us on our way. You must be scribe

and write him all down, so that when the others return from their work

you can give it to them; then they shall know as we do.”

And so I have written it whilst we wait their return, and Mrs. Harker

has written with her typewriter all since she brought the MS. to us.

CHAPTER XXVI

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY

_29 October._--This is written in the train from Varna to Galatz. Last

night we all assembled a little before the time of sunset. Each of us

had done his work as well as he could; so far as thought, and endeavour,

and opportunity go, we are prepared for the whole of our journey, and

for our work when we get to Galatz. When the usual time came round Mrs.

Harker prepared herself for her hypnotic effort; and after a longer and

more serious effort on the part of Van Helsing than has been usually

necessary, she sank into the trance. Usually she speaks on a hint; but

this time the Professor had to ask her questions, and to ask them pretty

resolutely, before we could learn anything; at last her answer came:--

“I can see nothing; we are still; there are no waves lapping, but only a

steady swirl of water softly running against the hawser. I can hear

men’s voices calling, near and far, and the roll and creak of oars in

the rowlocks. A gun is fired somewhere; the echo of it seems far away.

There is tramping of feet overhead, and ropes and chains are dragged

along. What is this? There is a gleam of light; I can feel the air

blowing upon me.”

Here she stopped. She had risen, as if impulsively, from where she lay

on the sofa, and raised both her hands, palms upwards, as if lifting a

weight. Van Helsing and I looked at each other with understanding.

Quincey raised his eyebrows slightly and looked at her intently, whilst

Harker’s hand instinctively closed round the hilt of his Kukri. There

was a long pause. We all knew that the time when she could speak was

passing; but we felt that it was useless to say anything. Suddenly she

sat up, and, as she opened her eyes, said sweetly:--

“Would none of you like a cup of tea? You must all be so tired!” We

could only make her happy, and so acquiesced. She bustled off to get

tea; when she had gone Van Helsing said:--

“You see, my friends. _He_ is close to land: he has left his

earth-chest. But he has yet to get on shore. In the night he may lie

hidden somewhere; but if he be not carried on shore, or if the ship do

not touch it, he cannot achieve the land. In such case he can, if it be

in the night, change his form and can jump or fly on shore, as he did

at Whitby. But if the day come before he get on shore, then, unless he

be carried he cannot escape. And if he be carried, then the customs men

may discover what the box contain. Thus, in fine, if he escape not on

shore to-night, or before dawn, there will be the whole day lost to him.

We may then arrive in time; for if he escape not at night we shall come

on him in daytime, boxed up and at our mercy; for he dare not be his

true self, awake and visible, lest he be discovered.”

There was no more to be said, so we waited in patience until the dawn;

at which time we might learn more from Mrs. Harker.

Early this morning we listened, with breathless anxiety, for her

response in her trance. The hypnotic stage was even longer in coming

than before; and when it came the time remaining until full sunrise was

so short that we began to despair. Van Helsing seemed to throw his whole

soul into the effort; at last, in obedience to his will she made

reply:--

“All is dark. I hear lapping water, level with me, and some creaking as

of wood on wood.” She paused, and the red sun shot up. We must wait till

to-night.

And so it is that we are travelling towards Galatz in an agony of