Just outside, stretched on a mattress, lay Mr. Morris, wide awake. He

raised a warning hand for silence as he whispered to me:--

“Hush! go back to bed; it is all right. One of us will be here all

night. We don’t mean to take any chances!”

His look and gesture forbade discussion, so I came back and told Mina.

She sighed and positively a shadow of a smile stole over her poor, pale

face as she put her arms round me and said softly:--

“Oh, thank God for good brave men!” With a sigh she sank back again to

sleep. I write this now as I am not sleepy, though I must try again.

 * * * * *

_4 October, morning._--Once again during the night I was wakened by

Mina. This time we had all had a good sleep, for the grey of the coming

dawn was making the windows into sharp oblongs, and the gas flame was

like a speck rather than a disc of light. She said to me hurriedly:--

“Go, call the Professor. I want to see him at once.”

“Why?” I asked.

“I have an idea. I suppose it must have come in the night, and matured

without my knowing it. He must hypnotise me before the dawn, and then I

shall be able to speak. Go quick, dearest; the time is getting close.” I

went to the door. Dr. Seward was resting on the mattress, and, seeing

me, he sprang to his feet.

“Is anything wrong?” he asked, in alarm.

“No,” I replied; “but Mina wants to see Dr. Van Helsing at once.”

“I will go,” he said, and hurried into the Professor’s room.

In two or three minutes later Van Helsing was in the room in his

dressing-gown, and Mr. Morris and Lord Godalming were with Dr. Seward at

the door asking questions. When the Professor saw Mina smile--a

positive smile ousted the anxiety of his face; he rubbed his hands as he

said:--

“Oh, my dear Madam Mina, this is indeed a change. See! friend Jonathan,

we have got our dear Madam Mina, as of old, back to us to-day!” Then

turning to her, he said, cheerfully: “And what am I do for you? For at

this hour you do not want me for nothings.”

“I want you to hypnotise me!” she said. “Do it before the dawn, for I

feel that then I can speak, and speak freely. Be quick, for the time is

short!” Without a word he motioned her to sit up in bed.

Looking fixedly at her, he commenced to make passes in front of her,

from over the top of her head downward, with each hand in turn. Mina

gazed at him fixedly for a few minutes, during which my own heart beat

like a trip hammer, for I felt that some crisis was at hand. Gradually

her eyes closed, and she sat, stock still; only by the gentle heaving of

her bosom could one know that she was alive. The Professor made a few

more passes and then stopped, and I could see that his forehead was

covered with great beads of perspiration. Mina opened her eyes; but she

did not seem the same woman. There was a far-away look in her eyes, and

her voice had a sad dreaminess which was new to me. Raising his hand to

impose silence, the Professor motioned to me to bring the others in.

They came on tip-toe, closing the door behind them, and stood at the

foot of the bed, looking on. Mina appeared not to see them. The

stillness was broken by Van Helsing’s voice speaking in a low level tone

which would not break the current of her thoughts:--

“Where are you?” The answer came in a neutral way:--

“I do not know. Sleep has no place it can call its own.” For several

minutes there was silence. Mina sat rigid, and the Professor stood

staring at her fixedly; the rest of us hardly dared to breathe. The room

was growing lighter; without taking his eyes from Mina’s face, Dr. Van

Helsing motioned me to pull up the blind. I did so, and the day seemed

just upon us. A red streak shot up, and a rosy light seemed to diffuse

itself through the room. On the instant the Professor spoke again:--

“Where are you now?” The answer came dreamily, but with intention; it

were as though she were interpreting something. I have heard her use the

same tone when reading her shorthand notes.

“I do not know. It is all strange to me!”

“What do you see?”

“I can see nothing; it is all dark.”