infamy--with the very moonlight alive with grisly shapes, and every

speck of dust that whirls in the wind a devouring monster in embryo?

Have you felt the Vampire’s lips upon your throat?” Here he turned to

me, and as his eyes lit on my forehead he threw up his arms with a cry:

“Oh, my God, what have we done to have this terror upon us!” and he sank

down on the sofa in a collapse of misery. The Professor’s voice, as he

spoke in clear, sweet tones, which seemed to vibrate in the air, calmed

us all:--

“Oh, my friend, it is because I would save Madam Mina from that awful

place that I would go. God forbid that I should take her into that

place. There is work--wild work--to be done there, that her eyes may not

see. We men here, all save Jonathan, have seen with their own eyes what

is to be done before that place can be purify. Remember that we are in

terrible straits. If the Count escape us this time--and he is strong and

subtle and cunning--he may choose to sleep him for a century, and then

in time our dear one”--he took my hand--“would come to him to keep him

company, and would be as those others that you, Jonathan, saw. You have

told us of their gloating lips; you heard their ribald laugh as they

clutched the moving bag that the Count threw to them. You shudder; and

well may it be. Forgive me that I make you so much pain, but it is

necessary. My friend, is it not a dire need for the which I am giving,

possibly my life? If it were that any one went into that place to stay,

it is I who would have to go to keep them company.”

“Do as you will,” said Jonathan, with a sob that shook him all over, “we

are in the hands of God!”

 * * * * *

_Later._--Oh, it did me good to see the way that these brave men worked.

How can women help loving men when they are so earnest, and so true, and

so brave! And, too, it made me think of the wonderful power of money!

What can it not do when it is properly applied; and what might it do

when basely used. I felt so thankful that Lord Godalming is rich, and

that both he and Mr. Morris, who also has plenty of money, are willing

to spend it so freely. For if they did not, our little expedition could

not start, either so promptly or so well equipped, as it will within

another hour. It is not three hours since it was arranged what part each

of us was to do; and now Lord Godalming and Jonathan have a lovely steam

launch, with steam up ready to start at a moment’s notice. Dr. Seward

and Mr. Morris have half a dozen good horses, well appointed. We have

all the maps and appliances of various kinds that can be had. Professor

Van Helsing and I are to leave by the 11:40 train to-night for Veresti,

where we are to get a carriage to drive to the Borgo Pass. We are

bringing a good deal of ready money, as we are to buy a carriage and

horses. We shall drive ourselves, for we have no one whom we can trust

in the matter. The Professor knows something of a great many languages,

so we shall get on all right. We have all got arms, even for me a

large-bore revolver; Jonathan would not be happy unless I was armed like

the rest. Alas! I cannot carry one arm that the rest do; the scar on my

forehead forbids that. Dear Dr. Van Helsing comforts me by telling me

that I am fully armed as there may be wolves; the weather is getting

colder every hour, and there are snow-flurries which come and go as

warnings.

 * * * * *

_Later._--It took all my courage to say good-bye to my darling. We may

never meet again. Courage, Mina! the Professor is looking at you keenly;

his look is a warning. There must be no tears now--unless it may be that

God will let them fall in gladness.

_Jonathan Harker’s Journal._

_October 30. Night._--I am writing this in the light from the furnace

door of the steam launch: Lord Godalming is firing up. He is an

experienced hand at the work, as he has had for years a launch of his

own on the Thames, and another on the Norfolk Broads. Regarding our

plans, we finally decided that Mina’s guess was correct, and that if any

waterway was chosen for the Count’s escape back to his Castle, the

Sereth and then the Bistritza at its junction, would be the one. We took

it, that somewhere about the 47th degree, north latitude, would be the

place chosen for the crossing the country between the river and the