 Citi. Vp sir go with me:

I charge thee in the Princes names obey.

Enter Prince, old Montague, Capulet, their Wiues and all.

 Prin. Where are the vile beginners of this Fray?

 Ben. O Noble Prince, I can discouer all

The vnluckie Mannage of this fatall brall:

There lies the man slaine by young Romeo,

That slew thy kinsman braue Mercutio

 Cap. Wi. Tybalt, my Cozin? O my Brothers Child,

O Prince, O Cozin, Husband, O the blood is spild

Of my deare kinsman. Prince as thou art true,

For bloud of ours, shed bloud of Mountague.

O Cozin, Cozin

 Prin. Benuolio, who began this Fray?

 Ben. Tybalt here slaine, whom Romeo's hand did slay,

Romeo that spoke him faire, bid him bethinke

How nice the Quarrell was, and vrg'd withall

Your high displeasure: all this vttered,

With gentle breath, calme looke, knees humbly bow'd

Could not take truce with the vnruly spleene

Of Tybalts deafe to peace, but that he Tilts

With Peircing steele at bold Mercutio's breast,

Who all as hot, turnes deadly point to point,

And with a Martiall scorne, with one hand beates

Cold death aside, and with the other sends

It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity

Retorts it: Romeo he cries aloud,

Hold Friends, Friends part, and swifter then his tongue,

His aged arme, beats downe their fatall points,

And twixt them rushes, vnderneath whose arme,

An enuious thrust from Tybalt, hit the life

Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled.

But by and by comes backe to Romeo,

Who had but newly entertained Reuenge,

And too't they goe like lightning, for ere I

Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slaine:

And as he fell, did Romeo turne and flie:

This is the truth, or let Benuolio die

 Cap. Wi. He is a kinsman to the Mountague,

Affection makes him false, he speakes not true:

Some twenty of them fought in this blacke strife,

And all those twenty could but kill one life.

I beg for Iustice, which thou Prince must giue:

Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not liue

 Prin. Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio,

Who now the price of his deare blood doth owe

 Cap. Not Romeo Prince, he was Mercutios Friend,

His fault concludes, but what the law should end,

The life of Tybalt

 Prin. And for that offence,

Immediately we doe exile him hence:

I haue an interest in your hearts proceeding:

My bloud for your rude brawles doth lie a bleeding.

But Ile Amerce you with so strong a fine,

That you shall all repent the losse of mine.

It will be deafe to pleading and excuses,

Nor teares, nor prayers shall purchase our abuses.

Therefore vse none, let Romeo hence in hast,

Else when he is found, that houre is his last.

Beare hence his body, and attend our will:

Mercy not Murders, pardoning those that kill.

Exeunt.

Enter Iuliet alone.

 Iul. Gallop apace, you fiery footed steedes,

Towards Phoebus lodging, such a Wagoner

As Phaeton would whip you to the west,

And bring in Cloudie night immediately.

Spred thy close Curtaine Loue-performing night,

That run-awayes eyes may wincke, and Romeo

Leape to these armes, vntalkt of and vnseene,

Louers can see to doe their Amorous rights,

And by their owne Beauties: or if Loue be blind,

It best agrees with night: come ciuill night,

Thou sober suted Matron all in blacke,

And learne me how to loose a winning match,

Plaid for a paire of stainlesse Maidenhoods,

Hood my vnman'd blood bayting in my Cheekes,

With thy Blacke mantle, till strange Loue grow bold,

Thinke true Loue acted simple modestie:

Come night, come Romeo, come thou day in night,

For thou wilt lie vpon the wings of night

Whiter then new Snow vpon a Rauens backe:

Come gentle night, come louing blackebrow'd night.

Giue me my Romeo, and when I shall die,