They were documents, in short, not official, but of a private nature,

or at least written in his private capacity, and apparently with his

own hand. I could account for their being included in the heap of

Custom-House lumber only by the fact that Mr. Pue’s death had happened

suddenly; and that these papers, which he probably kept in his

official desk, had never come to the knowledge of his heirs, or were

supposed to relate to the business of the revenue. On the transfer of

the archives to Halifax, this package, proving to be of no public

concern, was left behind, and had remained ever since unopened.

The ancient Surveyor—being little molested, I suppose, at that early

day, with business pertaining to his office—seems to have devoted

some of his many leisure hours to researches as a local antiquarian,

and other inquisitions of a similar nature. These supplied material

for petty activity to a mind that would otherwise have been eaten up

with rust. A portion of his facts, by the by, did me good service in

the preparation of the article entitled “MAIN STREET,” included in the

present volume. The remainder may perhaps be applied to purposes

equally valuable, hereafter; or not impossibly may be worked up, so

far as they go, into a regular history of Salem, should my veneration

for the natal soil ever impel me to so pious a task. Meanwhile, they

shall be at the command of any gentleman, inclined, and competent, to

take the unprofitable labor off my hands. As a final disposition, I

contemplate depositing them with the Essex Historical Society.

But the object that most drew my attention, in the mysterious package,

was a certain affair of fine red cloth, much worn and faded. There

were traces about it of gold embroidery, which, however, was greatly

frayed and defaced; so that none, or very little, of the glitter was

left. It had been wrought, as was easy to perceive, with wonderful

skill of needlework; and the stitch (as I am assured by ladies

conversant with such mysteries) gives evidence of a now forgotten art,

not to be recovered even by the process of picking out the threads.

This rag of scarlet cloth,—for time and wear and a sacrilegious moth

had reduced it to little other than a rag,—on careful examination,

assumed the shape of a letter. It was the capital letter A. By an

accurate measurement, each limb proved to be precisely three inches

and a quarter in length. It had been intended, there could be no

doubt, as an ornamental article of dress; but how it was to be worn,

or what rank, honor, and dignity, in by-past times, were signified by

it, was a riddle which (so evanescent are the fashions of the world in

these particulars) I saw little hope of solving. And yet it strangely

interested me. My eyes fastened themselves upon the old scarlet

letter, and would not be turned aside. Certainly, there was some deep

meaning in it, most worthy of interpretation, and which, as it were,

streamed forth from the mystic symbol, subtly communicating itself to

my sensibilities, but evading the analysis of my mind.

While thus perplexed,—and cogitating, among other hypotheses, whether

the letter might not have been one of those decorations which the

white men used to contrive, in order to take the eyes of Indians,—I

happened to place it on my breast. It seemed to me,—the reader may

smile, but must not doubt my word,—it seemed to me, then, that I

experienced a sensation not altogether physical, yet almost so, of

burning heat; and as if the letter were not of red cloth, but red-hot

iron. I shuddered, and involuntarily let it fall upon the floor.

In the absorbing contemplation of the scarlet letter, I had hitherto

neglected to examine a small roll of dingy paper, around which it had

been twisted. This I now opened, and had the satisfaction to find,

recorded by the old Surveyor’s pen, a reasonably complete explanation

of the whole affair. There were several foolscap sheets containing

many particulars respecting the life and conversation of one Hester

Prynne, who appeared to have been rather a noteworthy personage in the

view of our ancestors. She had flourished during the period between

the early days of Massachusetts and the close of the seventeenth

century. Aged persons, alive in the time of Mr. Surveyor Pue, and from

whose oral testimony he had made up his narrative, remembered her, in

their youth, as a very old, but not decrepit woman, of a stately and

solemn aspect. It had been her habit, from an almost immemorial date,

to go about the country as a kind of voluntary nurse, and doing

whatever miscellaneous good she might; taking upon herself, likewise,

to give advice in all matters, especially those of the heart; by which

means, as a person of such propensities inevitably must, she gained

from many people the reverence due to an angel, but, I should imagine,

was looked upon by others as an intruder and a nuisance. Prying

further into the manuscript, I found the record of other doings and

sufferings of this singular woman, for most of which the reader is

referred to the story entitled “THE SCARLET LETTER”; and it should be

borne carefully in mind, that the main facts of that story are