 Fri. O deadly sin, O rude vnthankefulnesse!

Thy falt our Law calles death, but the kind Prince

Taking thy part, hath rusht aside the Law,

And turn'd that blacke word death, to banishment.

This is deare mercy, and thou seest it not

 Rom. 'Tis Torture and not mercy, heauen is here

Where Iuliet liues, and euery Cat and Dog,

And little Mouse, euery vnworthy thing

Liue here in Heauen and may looke on her,

But Romeo may not. More Validitie,

More Honourable state, more Courtship liues

In carrion Flies, then Romeo: they may seaze

On the white wonder of deare Iuliets hand,

And steale immortall blessing from her lips,

Who euen in pure and vestall modestie

Still blush, as thinking their owne kisses sin.

This may Flies doe, when I from this must flie,

And saist thou yet, that exile is not death?

But Romeo may not, hee is banished.

Had'st thou no poyson mixt, no sharpe ground knife,

No sudden meane of death, though nere so meane,

But banished to kill me? Banished?

O Frier, the damned vse that word in hell:

Howlings attends it, how hast then the hart

Being a Diuine, a Ghostly Confessor,

A Sin-Absoluer, and my Friend profest:

To mangle me with that word, banished?

 Fri. Then fond Mad man, heare me speake

 Rom. O thou wilt speake againe of banishment

 Fri. Ile giue thee Armour to keepe off that word,

Aduersities sweete milke, Philosophie,

To comfort thee, though thou art banished

 Rom. Yet banished? hang vp Philosophie:

Vnlesse Philosophie can make a Iuliet,

Displant a Towne, reuerse a Princes Doome,

It helpes not, it preuailes not, talke no more

 Fri. O then I see, that Mad men haue no eares

 Rom. How should they,

When wisemen haue no eyes?

 Fri. Let me dispaire with thee of thy estate,

 Rom. Thou can'st not speake of that y dost not feele,

Wert thou as young as Iuliet my Loue:

An houre but married, Tybalt murdered,

Doting like me, and like me banished,

Then mightest thou speake,

Then mightest thou teare thy hayre,

And fall vpon the ground as I doe now,

Taking the measure of an vnmade graue.

Enter Nurse, and knockes.

 Frier. Arise one knockes,

Good Romeo hide thy selfe

 Rom. Not I,

Vnlesse the breath of Hartsicke groanes

Mist-like infold me from the search of eyes.

Knocke

 Fri. Harke how they knocke:

(Who's there) Romeo arise,

Thou wilt be taken, stay a while, stand vp:

Knocke.

Run to my study: by and by, Gods will

What simplenesse is this: I come, I come.

Knocke.

Who knocks so hard?

Whence come you? what's your will?

Enter Nurse.

 Nur. Let me come in,

And you shall know my errand:

I come from Lady Iuliet

 Fri. Welcome then

 Nur. O holy Frier, O tell me holy Frier,

Where's my Ladies Lord? where's Romeo?

 Fri. There on the ground,

With his owne teares made drunke

 Nur. O he is euen in my Mistresse case,

Iust in her case. O wofull simpathy:

Pittious predicament, euen so lies she,

Blubbring and weeping, weeping and blubbring,

Stand vp, stand vp, stand and you be a man,

For Iuliets sake, for her sake rise and stand:

Why should you fall into so deepe an O