suddenly, and a quick blush overspread her face.

The blush that rose to my own cheeks somehow set us both at ease, for it

was a tacit answer to her own. I got her luggage, which included a

typewriter, and we took the Underground to Fenchurch Street, after I had

sent a wire to my housekeeper to have a sitting-room and bedroom

prepared at once for Mrs. Harker.

In due time we arrived. She knew, of course, that the place was a

lunatic asylum, but I could see that she was unable to repress a shudder

when we entered.

She told me that, if she might, she would come presently to my study, as

she had much to say. So here I am finishing my entry in my phonograph

diary whilst I await her. As yet I have not had the chance of looking at

the papers which Van Helsing left with me, though they lie open before

me. I must get her interested in something, so that I may have an

opportunity of reading them. She does not know how precious time is, or

what a task we have in hand. I must be careful not to frighten her. Here

she is!

_Mina Harker’s Journal._

_29 September._--After I had tidied myself, I went down to Dr. Seward’s

study. At the door I paused a moment, for I thought I heard him talking

with some one. As, however, he had pressed me to be quick, I knocked at

the door, and on his calling out, “Come in,” I entered.

To my intense surprise, there was no one with him. He was quite alone,

and on the table opposite him was what I knew at once from the

description to be a phonograph. I had never seen one, and was much

interested.

“I hope I did not keep you waiting,” I said; “but I stayed at the door

as I heard you talking, and thought there was some one with you.”

“Oh,” he replied with a smile, “I was only entering my diary.”

“Your diary?” I asked him in surprise.

“Yes,” he answered. “I keep it in this.” As he spoke he laid his hand on

the phonograph. I felt quite excited over it, and blurted out:--

“Why, this beats even shorthand! May I hear it say something?”

“Certainly,” he replied with alacrity, and stood up to put it in train

for speaking. Then he paused, and a troubled look overspread his face.

“The fact is,” he began awkwardly, “I only keep my diary in it; and as

it is entirely--almost entirely--about my cases, it may be awkward--that

is, I mean----” He stopped, and I tried to help him out of his

embarrassment:--

“You helped to attend dear Lucy at the end. Let me hear how she died;

for all that I know of her, I shall be very grateful. She was very, very

dear to me.”

To my surprise, he answered, with a horrorstruck look in his face:--

“Tell you of her death? Not for the wide world!”

“Why not?” I asked, for some grave, terrible feeling was coming over me.

Again he paused, and I could see that he was trying to invent an excuse.

At length he stammered out:--

“You see, I do not know how to pick out any particular part of the

diary.” Even while he was speaking an idea dawned upon him, and he said

with unconscious simplicity, in a different voice, and with the naïveté

of a child: “That’s quite true, upon my honour. Honest Indian!” I could

not but smile, at which he grimaced. “I gave myself away that time!” he

said. “But do you know that, although I have kept the diary for months

past, it never once struck me how I was going to find any particular

part of it in case I wanted to look it up?” By this time my mind was

made up that the diary of a doctor who attended Lucy might have

something to add to the sum of our knowledge of that terrible Being, and

I said boldly:--

“Then, Dr. Seward, you had better let me copy it out for you on my

typewriter.” He grew to a positively deathly pallor as he said:--

“No! no! no! For all the world, I wouldn’t let you know that terrible

story!”

Then it was terrible; my intuition was right! For a moment I thought,

and as my eyes ranged the room, unconsciously looking for something or

some opportunity to aid me, they lit on a great batch of typewriting on

the table. His eyes caught the look in mine, and, without his thinking,

followed their direction. As they saw the parcel he realised my meaning.

“You do not know me,” I said. “When you have read those papers--my own

diary and my husband’s also, which I have typed--you will know me