and spectral images. Her mind, and especially her memory, was

preternaturally active, and kept bringing up other scenes than this

roughly hewn street of a little town, on the edge of the Western

wilderness; other faces than were lowering upon her from beneath the

brims of those steeple-crowned hats. Reminiscences the most trifling

and immaterial, passages of infancy and school-days, sports, childish

quarrels, and the little domestic traits of her maiden years, came

swarming back upon her, intermingled with recollections of whatever

was gravest in her subsequent life; one picture precisely as vivid as

another; as if all were of similar importance, or all alike a play.

Possibly, it was an instinctive device of her spirit, to relieve

itself, by the exhibition of these phantasmagoric forms, from the

cruel weight and hardness of the reality.

Be that as it might, the scaffold of the pillory was a point of view

that revealed to Hester Prynne the entire track along which she had

been treading, since her happy infancy. Standing on that miserable

eminence, she saw again her native village, in Old England, and her

paternal home; a decayed house of gray stone, with a poverty-stricken

aspect, but retaining a half-obliterated shield of arms over the

portal, in token of antique gentility. She saw her father’s face, with

its bald brow, and reverend white beard, that flowed over the

old-fashioned Elizabethan ruff; her mother’s, too, with the look of

heedful and anxious love which it always wore in her remembrance, and

which, even since her death, had so often laid the impediment of a

gentle remonstrance in her daughter’s pathway. She saw her own

face, glowing with girlish beauty, and illuminating all the interior

of the dusky mirror in which she had been wont to gaze at it. There

she beheld another countenance, of a man well stricken in years, a

pale, thin, scholar-like visage, with eyes dim and bleared by the

lamplight that had served them to pore over many ponderous books. Yet

those same bleared optics had a strange, penetrating power, when it

was their owner’s purpose to read the human soul. This figure of the

study and the cloister, as Hester Prynne’s womanly fancy failed not to

recall, was slightly deformed, with the left shoulder a trifle higher

than the right. Next rose before her, in memory’s picture-gallery, the

intricate and narrow thoroughfares, the tall, gray houses, the huge

cathedrals, and the public edifices, ancient in date and quaint in

architecture, of a Continental city; where a new life had awaited her,

still in connection with the misshapen scholar; a new life, but

feeding itself on time-worn materials, like a tuft of green moss on a

crumbling wall. Lastly, in lieu of these shifting scenes, came back

the rude market-place of the Puritan settlement, with all the

towns-people assembled and levelling their stern regards at Hester

Prynne,—yes, at herself,—who stood on the scaffold of the pillory,

an infant on her arm, and the letter A, in scarlet, fantastically

embroidered with gold-thread, upon her bosom!

[Illustration: “Standing on the Miserable Eminence”]

Could it be true? She clutched the child so fiercely to her breast,

that it sent forth a cry; she turned her eyes downward at the scarlet

letter, and even touched it with her finger, to assure herself that

the infant and the shame were real. Yes!—these were her

realities,—all else had vanished!

 [Illustration]

 III.

 THE RECOGNITION.

From this intense consciousness of being the object of severe and

universal observation, the wearer of the scarlet letter was at length

relieved, by discerning, on the outskirts of the crowd, a figure which

irresistibly took possession of her thoughts. An Indian, in his native

garb, was standing there; but the red men were not so infrequent

visitors of the English settlements, that one of them would have

attracted any notice from Hester Prynne, at such a time; much less

would he have excluded all other objects and ideas from her mind. By

the Indian’s side, and evidently sustaining a companionship with him,

stood a white man, clad in a strange disarray of civilized and savage

costume.

He was small in stature, with a furrowed visage, which, as yet, could

hardly be termed aged. There was a remarkable intelligence in his

features, as of a person who had so cultivated his mental part that it

could not fail to mould the physical to itself, and become manifest by

unmistakable tokens. Although, by a seemingly careless arrangement of

his heterogeneous garb, he had endeavored to conceal or abate the

peculiarity, it was sufficiently evident to Hester Prynne, that one of

this man’s shoulders rose higher than the other. Again, at the first

instant of perceiving that thin visage, and the slight deformity of

the figure, she pressed her infant to her bosom with so convulsive a

force that the poor babe uttered another cry of pain. But the mother

did not seem to hear it.

At his arrival in the market-place, and some time before she saw him,

the stranger had bent his eyes on Hester Prynne. It was carelessly, at