 Nur. O lamentable day

 Mo. What is the matter?

 Nur. Looke, looke, oh heauie day

 Mo. O me, O me, my Child, my onely life:

Reuiue, looke vp, or I will die with thee:

Helpe, helpe, call helpe.

Enter Father.

 Fa. For shame bring Iuliet forth, her Lord is come

 Nur. Shee's dead: deceast, shee's dead: alacke the day

 M. Alacke the day, shee's dead, shee's dead, shee's dead

 Fa. Ha? Let me see her: out alas shee's cold,

Her blood is setled and her ioynts are stiffe:

Life and these lips haue long bene seperated:

Death lies on her like an vntimely frost

Vpon the swetest flower of all the field

 Nur. O Lamentable day!

 Mo. O wofull time

 Fa. Death that hath tane her hence to make me waile,

Ties vp my tongue, and will not let me speake.

Enter Frier and the Countie.

 Fri. Come, is the Bride ready to go to Church?

 Fa. Ready to go, but neuer to returne.

O Sonne, the night before thy wedding day,

Hath death laine with thy wife: there she lies,

Flower as she was, deflowred by him.

Death is my Sonne in law, death is my Heire,

My Daughter he hath wedded. I will die,

And leaue him all life liuing, all is deaths

 Pa. Haue I thought long to see this mornings face,

And doth it giue me such a sight as this?

 Mo. Accur'st, vnhappie, wretched hatefull day,

Most miserable houre, that ere time saw

In lasting labour of his Pilgrimage.

But one, poore one, one poore and louing Child,

But one thing to reioyce and solace in,

And cruell death hath catcht it from my sight

 Nur. O wo, O wofull, wofull, wofull day,

Most lamentable day, most wofull day,

That euer, euer, I did yet behold.

O day, O day, O day, O hatefull day,

Neuer was seene so blacke a day as this:

O wofull day, O wofull day

 Pa. Beguild, diuorced, wronged, spighted, slaine,

Most detestable death, by thee beguil'd,

By cruell, cruell thee, quite ouerthrowne:

O loue, O life; not life, but loue in death

 Fat. Despis'd, distressed, hated, martir'd, kil'd,

Vncomfortable time, why cam'st thou now

To murther, murther our solemnitie?

O Child, O Child; my soule, and not my Child,

Dead art thou, alacke my Child is dead,

And with my Child, my ioyes are buried

 Fri. Peace ho for shame, confusions: Care liues not

In these confusions, heauen and your selfe

Had part in this faire Maid, now heauen hath all,

And all the better is it for the Maid:

Your part in her, you could not keepe from death,

But heauen keepes his part in eternall life:

The most you sought was her promotion,

For 'twas your heauen, she shouldst be aduan'st,

And weepe ye now, seeing she is aduan'st

Aboue the Cloudes, as high as Heauen it selfe?

O in this loue, you loue your Child so ill,

That you run mad, seeing that she is well:

Shee's not well married, that liues married long,

But shee's best married, that dies married yong.

Drie vp your teares, and sticke your Rosemarie

On this faire Coarse, and as the custome is,

And in her best array beare her to Church:

For though some Nature bids all vs lament,

Yet Natures teares are Reasons merriment

 Fa. All things that we ordained Festiuall,

Turne from their office to blacke Funerall:

Our instruments to melancholy Bells,

Our wedding cheare, to a sad buriall Feast:

Our solemne Hymnes, to sullen Dyrges change:

Our Bridall flowers serue for a buried Coarse:

And all things change them to the contrarie

 Fri. Sir go you in; and Madam, go with him,

And go sir Paris, euery one prepare

To follow this faire Coarse vnto her graue:

The heauens do lowre vpon you, for some ill: