engaged by Wickham for those very dances; and to have Mr. Collins

instead!--her liveliness had been never worse timed. There was no help

for it, however. Mr. Wickham’s happiness and her own was perforce

delayed a little longer, and Mr. Collins’s proposal accepted with as

good a grace as she could. She was not the better pleased with his

gallantry, from the idea it suggested of something more. It now first

struck her, that _she_ was selected from among her sisters as worthy of

being the mistress of Hunsford Parsonage, and of assisting to form a

quadrille table at Rosings, in the absence of more eligible visitors.

The idea soon reached to conviction, as she observed his increasing

civilities towards herself, and heard his frequent attempt at a

compliment on her wit and vivacity; and though more astonished than

gratified herself by this effect of her charms, it was not long before

her mother gave her to understand that the probability of their marriage

was exceedingly agreeable to _her_. Elizabeth, however, did not choose

to take the hint, being well aware that a serious dispute must be the

consequence of any reply. Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and,

till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.

If there had not been a Netherfield ball to prepare for and talk of, the

younger Miss Bennets would have been in a pitiable state at this time;

for, from the day of the invitation to the day of the ball, there was

such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to Meryton once. No

aunt, no officers, no news could be sought after; the very shoe-roses

for Netherfield were got by proxy. Even Elizabeth might have found some

trial of her patience in weather which totally suspended the improvement

of her acquaintance with Mr. Wickham; and nothing less than a dance on

Tuesday could have made such a Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday

endurable to Kitty and Lydia.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XVIII.

[Illustration]

Till Elizabeth entered the drawing-room at Netherfield, and looked in

vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled, a

doubt of his being present had never occurred to her. The certainty of

meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that

might not unreasonably have alarmed her. She had dressed with more than

usual care, and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all

that remained unsubdued of his heart, trusting that it was not more than

might be won in the course of the evening. But in an instant arose the

dreadful suspicion of his being purposely omitted, for Mr. Darcy’s

pleasure, in the Bingleys’ invitation to the officers; and though this

was not exactly the case, the absolute fact of his absence was

pronounced by his friend Mr. Denny, to whom Lydia eagerly applied, and

who told them that Wickham had been obliged to go to town on business

the day before, and was not yet returned; adding, with a significant

smile,--

“I do not imagine his business would have called him away just now, if

he had not wished to avoid a certain gentleman here.”

This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by

Elizabeth; and, as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for

Wickham’s absence than if her first surmise had been just, every feeling

of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate

disappointment, that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to

the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make.

Attention, forbearance, patience with Darcy, was injury to Wickham. She

was resolved against any sort of conversation with him, and turned away

with a degree of ill-humour which she could not wholly surmount even in

speaking to Mr. Bingley, whose blind partiality provoked her.

But Elizabeth was not formed for ill-humour; and though every prospect

of her own was destroyed for the evening, it could not dwell long on her

spirits; and, having told all her griefs to Charlotte Lucas, whom she

had not seen for a week, she was soon able to make a voluntary

transition to the oddities of her cousin, and to point him out to her

particular notice. The two first dances, however, brought a return of

distress: they were dances of mortification. Mr. Collins, awkward and

solemn, apologizing instead of attending, and often moving wrong

without being aware of it, gave her all the shame and misery which a

disagreeable partner for a couple of dances can give. The moment of her

release from him was ecstasy.

She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of

Wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked. When those dances

were over, she returned to Charlotte Lucas, and was in conversation with

her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy, who took

her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that, without

knowing what she did, she accepted him. He walked away again

immediately, and she was left to fret over her own want of presence of

mind: Charlotte tried to console her.

“I dare say you will find him very agreeable.”

“Heaven forbid! _That_ would be the greatest misfortune of all! To find