in the extreme, but at the outside there could not be more than twenty

of them against our millions.

The authorities had reason to suppose, from the size of the cylinders,

that at the outside there could not be more than five in each

cylinder—fifteen altogether. And one at least was disposed of—perhaps

more. The public would be fairly warned of the approach of danger, and

elaborate measures were being taken for the protection of the people in

the threatened southwestern suburbs. And so, with reiterated assurances

of the safety of London and the ability of the authorities to cope with

the difficulty, this quasi-proclamation closed.

This was printed in enormous type on paper so fresh that it was still

wet, and there had been no time to add a word of comment. It was

curious, my brother said, to see how ruthlessly the usual contents of

the paper had been hacked and taken out to give this place.

All down Wellington Street people could be seen fluttering out the pink

sheets and reading, and the Strand was suddenly noisy with the voices

of an army of hawkers following these pioneers. Men came scrambling off

buses to secure copies. Certainly this news excited people intensely,

whatever their previous apathy. The shutters of a map shop in the

Strand were being taken down, my brother said, and a man in his Sunday

raiment, lemon-yellow gloves even, was visible inside the window

hastily fastening maps of Surrey to the glass.

Going on along the Strand to Trafalgar Square, the paper in his hand,

my brother saw some of the fugitives from West Surrey. There was a man

with his wife and two boys and some articles of furniture in a cart

such as greengrocers use. He was driving from the direction of

Westminster Bridge; and close behind him came a hay waggon with five or

six respectable-looking people in it, and some boxes and bundles. The

faces of these people were haggard, and their entire appearance

contrasted conspicuously with the Sabbath-best appearance of the people

on the omnibuses. People in fashionable clothing peeped at them out of

cabs. They stopped at the Square as if undecided which way to take, and

finally turned eastward along the Strand. Some way behind these came a

man in workday clothes, riding one of those old-fashioned tricycles

with a small front wheel. He was dirty and white in the face.

My brother turned down towards Victoria, and met a number of such

people. He had a vague idea that he might see something of me. He

noticed an unusual number of police regulating the traffic. Some of the

refugees were exchanging news with the people on the omnibuses. One was

professing to have seen the Martians. “Boilers on stilts, I tell you,

striding along like men.” Most of them were excited and animated by

their strange experience.

Beyond Victoria the public-houses were doing a lively trade with these

arrivals. At all the street corners groups of people were reading

papers, talking excitedly, or staring at these unusual Sunday visitors.

They seemed to increase as night drew on, until at last the roads, my

brother said, were like Epsom High Street on a Derby Day. My brother

addressed several of these fugitives and got unsatisfactory answers

from most.

None of them could tell him any news of Woking except one man, who

assured him that Woking had been entirely destroyed on the previous

night.

“I come from Byfleet,” he said; “a man on a bicycle came through the

place in the early morning, and ran from door to door warning us to

come away. Then came soldiers. We went out to look, and there were

clouds of smoke to the south—nothing but smoke, and not a soul coming

that way. Then we heard the guns at Chertsey, and folks coming from

Weybridge. So I’ve locked up my house and come on.”

At that time there was a strong feeling in the streets that the

authorities were to blame for their incapacity to dispose of the

invaders without all this inconvenience.

About eight o’clock a noise of heavy firing was distinctly audible all

over the south of London. My brother could not hear it for the traffic

in the main thoroughfares, but by striking through the quiet back

streets to the river he was able to distinguish it quite plainly.

He walked from Westminster to his apartments near Regent’s Park, about

two. He was now very anxious on my account, and disturbed at the

evident magnitude of the trouble. His mind was inclined to run, even as

mine had run on Saturday, on military details. He thought of all those

silent, expectant guns, of the suddenly nomadic countryside; he tried