at his arm with a handful of gold. “Go on! Go on!” shouted angry voices

behind. “Way! Way!”

There was a smash as the pole of a carriage crashed into the cart that

the man on horseback stopped. My brother looked up, and the man with

the gold twisted his head round and bit the wrist that held his collar.

There was a concussion, and the black horse came staggering sideways,

and the carthorse pushed beside it. A hoof missed my brother’s foot by

a hair’s breadth. He released his grip on the fallen man and jumped

back. He saw anger change to terror on the face of the poor wretch on

the ground, and in a moment he was hidden and my brother was borne

backward and carried past the entrance of the lane, and had to fight

hard in the torrent to recover it.

He saw Miss Elphinstone covering her eyes, and a little child, with all

a child’s want of sympathetic imagination, staring with dilated eyes at

a dusty something that lay black and still, ground and crushed under

the rolling wheels. “Let us go back!” he shouted, and began turning the

pony round. “We cannot cross this—hell,” he said and they went back a

hundred yards the way they had come, until the fighting crowd was

hidden. As they passed the bend in the lane my brother saw the face of

the dying man in the ditch under the privet, deadly white and drawn,

and shining with perspiration. The two women sat silent, crouching in

their seat and shivering.

Then beyond the bend my brother stopped again. Miss Elphinstone was

white and pale, and her sister-in-law sat weeping, too wretched even to

call upon “George.” My brother was horrified and perplexed. So soon as

they had retreated he realised how urgent and unavoidable it was to

attempt this crossing. He turned to Miss Elphinstone, suddenly

resolute.

“We must go that way,” he said, and led the pony round again.

For the second time that day this girl proved her quality. To force

their way into the torrent of people, my brother plunged into the

traffic and held back a cab horse, while she drove the pony across its

head. A waggon locked wheels for a moment and ripped a long splinter

from the chaise. In another moment they were caught and swept forward

by the stream. My brother, with the cabman’s whip marks red across his

face and hands, scrambled into the chaise and took the reins from her.

“Point the revolver at the man behind,” he said, giving it to her, “if

he presses us too hard. No!—point it at his horse.”

Then he began to look out for a chance of edging to the right across

the road. But once in the stream he seemed to lose volition, to become

a part of that dusty rout. They swept through Chipping Barnet with the

torrent; they were nearly a mile beyond the centre of the town before

they had fought across to the opposite side of the way. It was din and

confusion indescribable; but in and beyond the town the road forks

repeatedly, and this to some extent relieved the stress.

They struck eastward through Hadley, and there on either side of the

road, and at another place farther on they came upon a great multitude

of people drinking at the stream, some fighting to come at the water.

And farther on, from a lull near East Barnet, they saw two trains

running slowly one after the other without signal or order—trains

swarming with people, with men even among the coals behind the

engines—going northward along the Great Northern Railway. My brother

supposes they must have filled outside London, for at that time the

furious terror of the people had rendered the central termini

impossible.

Near this place they halted for the rest of the afternoon, for the

violence of the day had already utterly exhausted all three of them.

They began to suffer the beginnings of hunger; the night was cold, and

none of them dared to sleep. And in the evening many people came

hurrying along the road nearby their stopping place, fleeing from

unknown dangers before them, and going in the direction from which my

brother had come.

XVII.

THE “THUNDER CHILD”.

Had the Martians aimed only at destruction, they might on Monday have

annihilated the entire population of London, as it spread itself slowly

through the home counties. Not only along the road through Barnet, but

also through Edgware and Waltham Abbey, and along the roads eastward to

Southend and Shoeburyness, and south of the Thames to Deal and

Broadstairs, poured the same frantic rout. If one could have hung that

June morning in a balloon in the blazing blue above London every

northward and eastward road running out of the tangled maze of streets