entitled to, even if he was not hungry. Gregor’s sister no longer

thought about how she could please him but would hurriedly push some

food or other into his room with her foot before she rushed out to work

in the morning and at midday, and in the evening she would sweep it

away again with the broom, indifferent as to whether it had been eaten

or—more often than not—had been left totally untouched. She still

cleared up the room in the evening, but now she could not have been any

quicker about it. Smears of dirt were left on the walls, here and there

were little balls of dust and filth. At first, Gregor went into one of

the worst of these places when his sister arrived as a reproach to her,

but he could have stayed there for weeks without his sister doing

anything about it; she could see the dirt as well as he could but she

had simply decided to leave him to it. At the same time she became

touchy in a way that was quite new for her and which everyone in the

family understood—cleaning up Gregor’s room was for her and her alone.

Gregor’s mother did once thoroughly clean his room, and needed to use

several bucketfuls of water to do it—although that much dampness also

made Gregor ill and he lay flat on the couch, bitter and immobile. But

his mother was to be punished still more for what she had done, as

hardly had his sister arrived home in the evening than she noticed the

change in Gregor’s room and, highly aggrieved, ran back into the living

room where, despite her mothers raised and imploring hands, she broke

into convulsive tears. Her father, of course, was startled out of his

chair and the two parents looked on astonished and helpless; then they,

too, became agitated; Gregor’s father, standing to the right of his

mother, accused her of not leaving the cleaning of Gregor’s room to his

sister; from her left, Gregor’s sister screamed at her that she was

never to clean Gregor’s room again; while his mother tried to draw his

father, who was beside himself with anger, into the bedroom; his

sister, quaking with tears, thumped on the table with her small fists;

and Gregor hissed in anger that no-one had even thought of closing the

door to save him the sight of this and all its noise.

Gregor’s sister was exhausted from going out to work, and looking after

Gregor as she had done before was even more work for her, but even so

his mother ought certainly not to have taken her place. Gregor, on the

other hand, ought not to be neglected. Now, though, the charwoman was

here. This elderly widow, with a robust bone structure that made her

able to withstand the hardest of things in her long life, wasn’t really

repelled by Gregor. Just by chance one day, rather than any real

curiosity, she opened the door to Gregor’s room and found herself face

to face with him. He was taken totally by surprise, no-one was chasing

him but he began to rush to and fro while she just stood there in

amazement with her hands crossed in front of her. From then on she

never failed to open the door slightly every evening and morning and

look briefly in on him. At first she would call to him as she did so

with words that she probably considered friendly, such as “come on

then, you old dung-beetle!”, or “look at the old dung-beetle there!”

Gregor never responded to being spoken to in that way, but just

remained where he was without moving as if the door had never even been

opened. If only they had told this charwoman to clean up his room every

day instead of letting her disturb him for no reason whenever she felt

like it! One day, early in the morning while a heavy rain struck the

windowpanes, perhaps indicating that spring was coming, she began to

speak to him in that way once again. Gregor was so resentful of it that

he started to move toward her, he was slow and infirm, but it was like

a kind of attack. Instead of being afraid, the charwoman just lifted up

one of the chairs from near the door and stood there with her mouth

open, clearly intending not to close her mouth until the chair in her

hand had been slammed down into Gregor’s back. “Aren’t you coming any

closer, then?”, she asked when Gregor turned round again, and she

calmly put the chair back in the corner.

Gregor had almost entirely stopped eating. Only if he happened to find

himself next to the food that had been prepared for him he might take

some of it into his mouth to play with it, leave it there a few hours

and then, more often than not, spit it out again. At first he thought

it was distress at the state of his room that stopped him eating, but

he had soon got used to the changes made there. They had got into the

habit of putting things into this room that they had no room for

anywhere else, and there were now many such things as one of the rooms

in the flat had been rented out to three gentlemen. These earnest

gentlemen—all three of them had full beards, as Gregor learned peering

through the crack in the door one day—were painfully insistent on

things’ being tidy. This meant not only in their own room but, since

they had taken a room in this establishment, in the entire flat and