aunt, and all Mr. Collins’s scruples of leaving Mr. and Mrs. Bennet for

a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted, the coach

conveyed him and his five cousins at a suitable hour to Meryton; and the

girls had the pleasure of hearing, as they entered the drawing-room,

that Mr. Wickham had accepted their uncle’s invitation, and was then in

the house.

When this information was given, and they had all taken their seats, Mr.

Collins was at leisure to look around him and admire, and he was so much

struck with the size and furniture of the apartment, that he declared he

might almost have supposed himself in the small summer breakfast parlour

at Rosings; a comparison that did not at first convey much

gratification; but when Mrs. Philips understood from him what Rosings

was, and who was its proprietor, when she had listened to the

description of only one of Lady Catherine’s drawing-rooms, and found

that the chimney-piece alone had cost eight hundred pounds, she felt all

the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented a comparison

with the housekeeper’s room.

In describing to her all the grandeur of Lady Catherine and her mansion,

with occasional digressions in praise of his own humble abode, and the

improvements it was receiving, he was happily employed until the

gentlemen joined them; and he found in Mrs. Philips a very attentive

listener, whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she

heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as

soon as she could. To the girls, who could not listen to their cousin,

and who had nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine

their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantel-piece, the

interval of waiting appeared very long. It was over at last, however.

The gentlemen did approach: and when Mr. Wickham walked into the room,

Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking

of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration. The

officers of the ----shire were in general a very creditable,

gentlemanlike set and the best of them were of the present party; but

Mr, Wickham was as far beyond them all in person, countenance, air, and

walk, as _they_ were superior to the broad-faced stuffy uncle Philips,

breathing port wine, who followed them into the room.

[Illustration:

“The officers of the ----shire”

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was

turned, and Elizabeth was the happy woman by whom he finally seated

himself; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into

conversation, though it was only on its being a wet night, and on the

probability of a rainy season, made her feel that the commonest,

dullest, most threadbare topic might be rendered interesting by the

skill of the speaker.

With such rivals for the notice of the fair as Mr. Wickham and the

officers, Mr. Collins seemed to sink into insignificance; to the young

ladies he certainly was nothing; but he had still at intervals a kind

listener in Mrs. Philips, and was, by her watchfulness, most abundantly

supplied with coffee and muffin.

When the card tables were placed, he had an opportunity of obliging her,

in return, by sitting down to whist.

“I know little of the game at present,” said he, “but I shall be glad to

improve myself; for in my situation of life----” Mrs. Philips was very

thankful for his compliance, but could not wait for his reason.

Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he

received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia. At first there

seemed danger of Lydia’s engrossing him entirely, for she was a most

determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets,

she soon grew too much interested in the game, too eager in making bets

and exclaiming after prizes, to have attention for anyone in particular.

Allowing for the common demands of the game, Mr. Wickham was therefore

at leisure to talk to Elizabeth, and she was very willing to hear him,

though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told,

the history of his acquaintance with Mr. Darcy. She dared not even

mention that gentleman. Her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly

relieved. Mr. Wickham began the subject himself. He inquired how far

Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving her answer, asked in

a hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been staying there.

“About a month,” said Elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the subject

drop, added, “he is a man of very large property in Derbyshire, I

understand.”

“Yes,” replied Wickham; “his estate there is a noble one. A clear ten

thousand per annum. You could not have met with a person more capable of

giving you certain information on that head than myself--for I have been

connected with his family, in a particular manner, from my infancy.”

Elizabeth could not but look surprised.

“You may well be surprised, Miss Bennet, at such an assertion, after

seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting

yesterday. Are you much acquainted with Mr. Darcy?”

“As much as I ever wish to be,” cried Elizabeth, warmly. “I have spent

four days in the same house with him, and I think him very

disagreeable.”

“I have no right to give _my_ opinion,” said Wickham, “as to his being

agreeable or otherwise. I am not qualified to form one. I have known him