Mrs. Gardiner abused her stupidity. “If it were merely a fine house

richly furnished,” said she, “I should not care about it myself; but the

grounds are delightful. They have some of the finest woods in the

country.”

Elizabeth said no more; but her mind could not acquiesce. The

possibility of meeting Mr. Darcy, while viewing the place, instantly

occurred. It would be dreadful! She blushed at the very idea; and

thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt, than to run such

a risk. But against this there were objections; and she finally resolved

that it could be the last resource, if her private inquiries as to the

absence of the family were unfavourably answered.

Accordingly, when she retired at night, she asked the chambermaid

whether Pemberley were not a very fine place, what was the name of its

proprietor, and, with no little alarm, whether the family were down for

the summer? A most welcome negative followed the last question; and her

alarms being now removed, she was at leisure to feel a great deal of

curiosity to see the house herself; and when the subject was revived the

next morning, and she was again applied to, could readily answer, and

with a proper air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike

to the scheme.

To Pemberley, therefore, they were to go.

[Illustration:

 “Conjecturing as to the date”

]

CHAPTER XLIII.

[Illustration]

Elizabeth, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of

Pemberley Woods with some perturbation; and when at length they turned

in at the lodge, her spirits were in a high flutter.

The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground. They

entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through

a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.

Elizabeth’s mind was too full for conversation, but she saw and admired

every remarkable spot and point of view. They gradually ascended for

half a mile, and then found themselves at the top of a considerable

eminence, where the wood ceased, and the eye was instantly caught by

Pemberley House, situated on the opposite side of the valley, into which

the road with some abruptness wound. It was a large, handsome stone

building, standing well on rising ground, and backed by a ridge of high

woody hills; and in front a stream of some natural importance was

swelled into greater, but without any artificial appearance. Its banks

were neither formal nor falsely adorned. Elizabeth was delighted. She

had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural

beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste. They were

all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment she felt that

to be mistress of Pemberley might be something!

They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the door; and,

while examining the nearer aspect of the house, all her apprehension of

meeting its owner returned. She dreaded lest the chambermaid had been

mistaken. On applying to see the place, they were admitted into the

hall; and Elizabeth, as they waited for the housekeeper, had leisure to

wonder at her being where she was.

The housekeeper came; a respectable looking elderly woman, much less

fine, and more civil, than she had any notion of finding her. They

followed her into the dining-parlour. It was a large, well-proportioned

room, handsomely fitted up. Elizabeth, after slightly surveying it, went

to a window to enjoy its prospect. The hill, crowned with wood, from

which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the

distance, was a beautiful object. Every disposition of the ground was

good; and she looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered

on its banks, and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace

it, with delight. As they passed into other rooms, these objects were

taking different positions; but from every window there were beauties

to be seen. The rooms were lofty and handsome, and their furniture

suitable to the fortune of their proprietor; but Elizabeth saw, with

admiration of his taste, that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly

fine,--with less of splendour, and more real elegance, than the

furniture of Rosings.

“And of this place,” thought she, “I might have been mistress! With

these rooms I might have now been familiarly acquainted! Instead of

viewing them as a stranger, I might have rejoiced in them as my own, and

welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and aunt. But, no,” recollecting

herself, “that could never be; my uncle and aunt would have been lost to