was triumphant he found but little, for whatever there was had been

sheltered in the friendly soil.”

“But how,” said I, “can it have remained so long undiscovered, when

there is a sure index to it if men will but take the trouble to look?”

The Count smiled, and as his lips ran back over his gums, the long,

sharp, canine teeth showed out strangely; he answered:--

“Because your peasant is at heart a coward and a fool! Those flames only

appear on one night; and on that night no man of this land will, if he

can help it, stir without his doors. And, dear sir, even if he did he

would not know what to do. Why, even the peasant that you tell me of who

marked the place of the flame would not know where to look in daylight

even for his own work. Even you would not, I dare be sworn, be able to

find these places again?”

“There you are right,” I said. “I know no more than the dead where even

to look for them.” Then we drifted into other matters.

“Come,” he said at last, “tell me of London and of the house which you

have procured for me.” With an apology for my remissness, I went into my

own room to get the papers from my bag. Whilst I was placing them in

order I heard a rattling of china and silver in the next room, and as I

passed through, noticed that the table had been cleared and the lamp

lit, for it was by this time deep into the dark. The lamps were also lit

in the study or library, and I found the Count lying on the sofa,

reading, of all things in the world, an English Bradshaw’s Guide. When I

came in he cleared the books and papers from the table; and with him I

went into plans and deeds and figures of all sorts. He was interested in

everything, and asked me a myriad questions about the place and its

surroundings. He clearly had studied beforehand all he could get on the

subject of the neighbourhood, for he evidently at the end knew very much

more than I did. When I remarked this, he answered:--

“Well, but, my friend, is it not needful that I should? When I go there

I shall be all alone, and my friend Harker Jonathan--nay, pardon me, I

fall into my country’s habit of putting your patronymic first--my friend

Jonathan Harker will not be by my side to correct and aid me. He will be

in Exeter, miles away, probably working at papers of the law with my

other friend, Peter Hawkins. So!”

We went thoroughly into the business of the purchase of the estate at

Purfleet. When I had told him the facts and got his signature to the

necessary papers, and had written a letter with them ready to post to

Mr. Hawkins, he began to ask me how I had come across so suitable a

place. I read to him the notes which I had made at the time, and which I

inscribe here:--

“At Purfleet, on a by-road, I came across just such a place as seemed to

be required, and where was displayed a dilapidated notice that the place

was for sale. It is surrounded by a high wall, of ancient structure,

built of heavy stones, and has not been repaired for a large number of

years. The closed gates are of heavy old oak and iron, all eaten with

rust.

“The estate is called Carfax, no doubt a corruption of the old _Quatre

Face_, as the house is four-sided, agreeing with the cardinal points of

the compass. It contains in all some twenty acres, quite surrounded by

the solid stone wall above mentioned. There are many trees on it, which

make it in places gloomy, and there is a deep, dark-looking pond or

small lake, evidently fed by some springs, as the water is clear and

flows away in a fair-sized stream. The house is very large and of all

periods back, I should say, to mediæval times, for one part is of stone

immensely thick, with only a few windows high up and heavily barred with

iron. It looks like part of a keep, and is close to an old chapel or

church. I could not enter it, as I had not the key of the door leading

to it from the house, but I have taken with my kodak views of it from

various points. The house has been added to, but in a very straggling

way, and I can only guess at the amount of ground it covers, which must

be very great. There are but few houses close at hand, one being a very

large house only recently added to and formed into a private lunatic

asylum. It is not, however, visible from the grounds.”

When I had finished, he said:--

“I am glad that it is old and big. I myself am of an old family, and to

live in a new house would kill me. A house cannot be made habitable in a

day; and, after all, how few days go to make up a century. I rejoice

also that there is a chapel of old times. We Transylvanian nobles love