would have seemed stippled black with the streaming fugitives, each dot

a human agony of terror and physical distress. I have set forth at

length in the last chapter my brother’s account of the road through

Chipping Barnet, in order that my readers may realise how that swarming

of black dots appeared to one of those concerned. Never before in the

history of the world had such a mass of human beings moved and suffered

together. The legendary hosts of Goths and Huns, the hugest armies Asia

has ever seen, would have been but a drop in that current. And this was

no disciplined march; it was a stampede—a stampede gigantic and

terrible—without order and without a goal, six million people unarmed

and unprovisioned, driving headlong. It was the beginning of the rout

of civilisation, of the massacre of mankind.

Directly below him the balloonist would have seen the network of

streets far and wide, houses, churches, squares, crescents,

gardens—already derelict—spread out like a huge map, and in the

southward _blotted_. Over Ealing, Richmond, Wimbledon, it would have

seemed as if some monstrous pen had flung ink upon the chart. Steadily,

incessantly, each black splash grew and spread, shooting out

ramifications this way and that, now banking itself against rising

ground, now pouring swiftly over a crest into a new-found valley,

exactly as a gout of ink would spread itself upon blotting paper.

And beyond, over the blue hills that rise southward of the river, the

glittering Martians went to and fro, calmly and methodically spreading

their poison cloud over this patch of country and then over that,

laying it again with their steam jets when it had served its purpose,

and taking possession of the conquered country. They do not seem to

have aimed at extermination so much as at complete demoralisation and

the destruction of any opposition. They exploded any stores of powder

they came upon, cut every telegraph, and wrecked the railways here and

there. They were hamstringing mankind. They seemed in no hurry to

extend the field of their operations, and did not come beyond the

central part of London all that day. It is possible that a very

considerable number of people in London stuck to their houses through

Monday morning. Certain it is that many died at home suffocated by the

Black Smoke.

Until about midday the Pool of London was an astonishing scene.

Steamboats and shipping of all sorts lay there, tempted by the enormous

sums of money offered by fugitives, and it is said that many who swam

out to these vessels were thrust off with boathooks and drowned. About

one o’clock in the afternoon the thinning remnant of a cloud of the

black vapour appeared between the arches of Blackfriars Bridge. At that

the Pool became a scene of mad confusion, fighting, and collision, and

for some time a multitude of boats and barges jammed in the northern

arch of the Tower Bridge, and the sailors and lightermen had to fight

savagely against the people who swarmed upon them from the riverfront.

People were actually clambering down the piers of the bridge from

above.

When, an hour later, a Martian appeared beyond the Clock Tower and

waded down the river, nothing but wreckage floated above Limehouse.

Of the falling of the fifth cylinder I have presently to tell. The

sixth star fell at Wimbledon. My brother, keeping watch beside the

women in the chaise in a meadow, saw the green flash of it far beyond

the hills. On Tuesday the little party, still set upon getting across

the sea, made its way through the swarming country towards Colchester.

The news that the Martians were now in possession of the whole of

London was confirmed. They had been seen at Highgate, and even, it was

said, at Neasden. But they did not come into my brother’s view until

the morrow.

That day the scattered multitudes began to realise the urgent need of

provisions. As they grew hungry the rights of property ceased to be

regarded. Farmers were out to defend their cattle-sheds, granaries, and

ripening root crops with arms in their hands. A number of people now,

like my brother, had their faces eastward, and there were some

desperate souls even going back towards London to get food. These were

chiefly people from the northern suburbs, whose knowledge of the Black

Smoke came by hearsay. He heard that about half the members of the

government had gathered at Birmingham, and that enormous quantities of

high explosives were being prepared to be used in automatic mines

across the Midland counties.

He was also told that the Midland Railway Company had replaced the

desertions of the first day’s panic, had resumed traffic, and was

running northward trains from St. Albans to relieve the congestion of

the home counties. There was also a placard in Chipping Ongar