"Trouble? Oh, no! Bless my frying pan, no trouble, Tom! In fact, it may

be the other way about. Tom, I have an idea, and there may be millions

in it! That's it--millions!"

"Good!" cried the young inventor. "Might as well bite off a big lump

while you're at it. So you have a new idea! Well, I have myself, but

I'll listen to yours first. What is it, Mr. Damon?"

"It's a new kind of airship, Tom. I haven't got it all worked out yet,

but I can give you a rough outline. On my way over I got to thinking

about balloons, aeroplanes and the like, and it occurred to me that the

present principles are all wrong."

"So I evolved a new type of machine. I'm going to call it the Damon

Whizzer. Maybe Demon Whizzer would be more appropriate, but we won't

decide on that now. Anyhow, it's going to be a whizzer, and I want to

talk to you about it. There is an entirely new principle of elevation

and propulsion involved in my Whizzer, and I--"

At that moment there came a crash and clatter of steel and wood from

the garden, out of sight of which Tom and Mr. Damon had walked while

talking. Then followed a jangle of words.

"They're at it again!" cried Tom, as he ran toward the side of the

house. "I guess it's a fight this time!"

CHAPTER V

TOM'S PROJECT

Curious was the sight that met the gaze of Tom Swift and Mr. Wakefield

Damon as they rounded the corner of the house and looked into the newly

spaded garden. There stood the giant, Koku, holding aloft in the air,

by one hand, the form of the struggling colored man, Eradicate Sampson.

And Eradicate was vainly trying to get at his enemy and rival, but was

prevented by the long-distance hold the giant had on him.

"Yo' let me go, now! Yo' let me go, big man," cried Eradicate. "Ef yo'

don't I'll bust yo' wide open, dat's whut I'll do! An' 'sides, I'll

tell Massa Tom on yo', dat's whut I'll do!"

"Ho! You tell--I let you fall!" threatened Koku.

His threat was dire enough, for such was his size and strength that he

held the colored man nearly nine feet from the ground, and a fall from

that distance would seriously jar Eradicate, if it did nothing else.

The colored man's eyes opened wide as he heard what Koku said, and then

he cried:

"Let me down! Let me down, an' I won't say nuffin!"

"An' you let me scatter dirt?" asked Koku, for such was the giant's

idea of working in the garden.

"Yes, yo' kin scatter de dirt seben ways from Sunday fo' all I keers!"

conceded Eradicate. Then, as he was lowered to the ground, he and the

giant turned and saw Mr. Damon and Tom approaching.

"What's wrong?" asked the young inventor.

"'Scuse me, Massa Tom," began Eradicate, "but didn't yo' tell me to

spade de garden?"

"I guess I did," admitted Tom Swift.

"An' you tell me help--yes?" questioned Koku.

"Well, I thought it would be a little too much for you, Rad," said Tom,

gently. "I thought perhaps you'd like help."

"Hu! Not him, anyhow!" declared the colored man in great disgust. "When

I git so old dat I cain't spade a garden, den me an' Boomerang, we-all

gwine to die, dat's all I got to say. I was a-spadin' my part ob de

garden, Massa Tom, same laik Mr. Damon done tole me to, an' dish yeah

big mess ob bones steps on my side ob de middle an--"

"Him too slow. Koku scatter dirt twice times so fast!" declared the

giant, whose English was not much better than Eradicate's.

"Yes, I see," said Tom. "You are so strong, Koku, that you finished

your part before Eradicate did. Well, it was good of you to want to