A Visor for a Visor, what care I

What curious eye doth quote deformities:

Here are the Beetle-browes shall blush for me

 Ben. Come knocke and enter, and no sooner in,

But euery man betake him to his legs

 Rom. A Torch for me, let wantons light of heart

Tickle the sencelesse rushes with their heeles:

For I am prouerb'd with a Grandsier Phrase,

Ile be a Candle-holder and looke on,

The game was nere so faire, and I am done

 Mer. Tut, duns the Mouse, the Constables owne word,

If thou art dun, weele draw thee from the mire.

Or saue your reuerence loue, wherein thou stickest

Vp to the eares, come we burne day-light ho

 Rom. Nay that's not so

 Mer. I meane sir I delay,

We wast our lights in vaine, lights, lights, by day;

Take our good meaning, for our Iudgement sits

Fiue times in that, ere once in our fiue wits

 Rom. And we meane well in going to this Maske,

But 'tis no wit to go

 Mer. Why may one aske?

 Rom. I dreampt a dreame to night

 Mer. And so did I

 Rom. Well what was yours?

 Mer. That dreamers often lye

 Ro. In bed a sleepe while they do dreame things true

 Mer. O then I see Queene Mab hath beene with you:

She is the Fairies Midwife, & she comes in shape no bigger

then Agat-stone, on the fore-finger of an Alderman,

drawne with a teeme of little Atomies, ouer mens noses as

they lie asleepe: her Waggon Spokes made of long Spinners

legs: the Couer of the wings of Grashoppers, her

Traces of the smallest Spiders web, her coullers of the

Moonshines watry Beames, her Whip of Crickets bone,

the Lash of Philome, her Waggoner, a small gray-coated

Gnat, not halfe so bigge as a round little Worme, prickt

from the Lazie-finger of a man. Her Chariot is an emptie

Haselnut, made by the Ioyner Squirrel or old Grub, time

out a mind, the Faries Coach-makers: & in this state she

gallops night by night, through Louers braines: and then

they dreame of Loue. On Courtiers knees, that dreame on

Cursies strait: ore Lawyers fingers, who strait dreampt on

Fees, ore Ladies lips, who strait on kisses dreame, which

oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues, because their

breath with Sweet meats tainted are. Sometime she gallops

ore a Courtiers nose, & then dreames he of smelling

out a sute: & somtime comes she with Tith pigs tale, tickling

a Parsons nose as a lies asleepe, then he dreames of

another Benefice. Sometime she driueth ore a Souldiers

necke, & then dreames he of cutting Forraine throats, of

Breaches, Ambuscados, Spanish Blades: Of Healths fiue

Fadome deepe, and then anon drums in his eares, at which

he startes and wakes; and being thus frighted, sweares a

prayer or two & sleepes againe: this is that very Mab that

plats the manes of Horses in the night: & bakes the Elklocks

in foule sluttish haires, which once vntangled, much

misfortune bodes,

This is the hag, when Maides lie on their backs,

That presses them, and learnes them first to beare,

Making them women of good carriage:

This is she

 Rom. Peace, peace, Mercutio peace,

Thou talk'st of nothing

 Mer. True, I talke of dreames:

Which are the children of an idle braine,

Begot of nothing, but vaine phantasie,

Which is as thin of substance as the ayre,

And more inconstant then the wind, who wooes

Euen now the frozen bosome of the North:

And being anger'd, puffes away from thence,

Turning his side to the dew dropping South

 Ben. This wind you talke of blowes vs from our selues,

Supper is done, and we shall come too late

 Rom. I feare too early, for my mind misgiues,

Some consequence yet hanging in the starres,

Shall bitterly begin his fearefull date

With this nights reuels, and expire the tearme