shock and thrill me, for it was said as if he did not know that it was

to me, Mina, to whom he was speaking:--

“It is the man himself!”

The poor dear was evidently terrified at something--very greatly

terrified; I do believe that if he had not had me to lean on and to

support him he would have sunk down. He kept staring; a man came out of

the shop with a small parcel, and gave it to the lady, who then drove

off. The dark man kept his eyes fixed on her, and when the carriage

moved up Piccadilly he followed in the same direction, and hailed a

hansom. Jonathan kept looking after him, and said, as if to himself:--

“I believe it is the Count, but he has grown young. My God, if this be

so! Oh, my God! my God! If I only knew! if I only knew!” He was

distressing himself so much that I feared to keep his mind on the

subject by asking him any questions, so I remained silent. I drew him

away quietly, and he, holding my arm, came easily. We walked a little

further, and then went in and sat for a while in the Green Park. It was

a hot day for autumn, and there was a comfortable seat in a shady place.

After a few minutes’ staring at nothing, Jonathan’s eyes closed, and he

went quietly into a sleep, with his head on my shoulder. I thought it

was the best thing for him, so did not disturb him. In about twenty

minutes he woke up, and said to me quite cheerfully:--

“Why, Mina, have I been asleep! Oh, do forgive me for being so rude.

Come, and we’ll have a cup of tea somewhere.” He had evidently forgotten

all about the dark stranger, as in his illness he had forgotten all that

this episode had reminded him of. I don’t like this lapsing into

forgetfulness; it may make or continue some injury to the brain. I must

not ask him, for fear I shall do more harm than good; but I must somehow

learn the facts of his journey abroad. The time is come, I fear, when I

must open that parcel, and know what is written. Oh, Jonathan, you will,

I know, forgive me if I do wrong, but it is for your own dear sake.

 * * * * *

_Later._--A sad home-coming in every way--the house empty of the dear

soul who was so good to us; Jonathan still pale and dizzy under a slight

relapse of his malady; and now a telegram from Van Helsing, whoever he

may be:--

“You will be grieved to hear that Mrs. Westenra died five days ago, and

that Lucy died the day before yesterday. They were both buried to-day.”

Oh, what a wealth of sorrow in a few words! Poor Mrs. Westenra! poor

Lucy! Gone, gone, never to return to us! And poor, poor Arthur, to have

lost such sweetness out of his life! God help us all to bear our

troubles.

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_22 September._--It is all over. Arthur has gone back to Ring, and has

taken Quincey Morris with him. What a fine fellow is Quincey! I believe

in my heart of hearts that he suffered as much about Lucy’s death as any

of us; but he bore himself through it like a moral Viking. If America

can go on breeding men like that, she will be a power in the world

indeed. Van Helsing is lying down, having a rest preparatory to his

journey. He goes over to Amsterdam to-night, but says he returns

to-morrow night; that he only wants to make some arrangements which can

only be made personally. He is to stop with me then, if he can; he says

he has work to do in London which may take him some time. Poor old

fellow! I fear that the strain of the past week has broken down even his

iron strength. All the time of the burial he was, I could see, putting

some terrible restraint on himself. When it was all over, we were

standing beside Arthur, who, poor fellow, was speaking of his part in

the operation where his blood had been transfused to his Lucy’s veins; I

could see Van Helsing’s face grow white and purple by turns. Arthur was

saying that he felt since then as if they two had been really married

and that she was his wife in the sight of God. None of us said a word of