better. I have not faltered in giving every thought of my own heart in

this cause; but, of course, you do not know me--yet; and I must not

expect you to trust me so far.”

He is certainly a man of noble nature; poor dear Lucy was right about

him. He stood up and opened a large drawer, in which were arranged in

order a number of hollow cylinders of metal covered with dark wax, and

said:--

“You are quite right. I did not trust you because I did not know you.

But I know you now; and let me say that I should have known you long

ago. I know that Lucy told you of me; she told me of you too. May I make

the only atonement in my power? Take the cylinders and hear them--the

first half-dozen of them are personal to me, and they will not horrify

you; then you will know me better. Dinner will by then be ready. In the

meantime I shall read over some of these documents, and shall be better

able to understand certain things.” He carried the phonograph himself up

to my sitting-room and adjusted it for me. Now I shall learn something

pleasant, I am sure; for it will tell me the other side of a true love

episode of which I know one side already....

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_29 September._--I was so absorbed in that wonderful diary of Jonathan

Harker and that other of his wife that I let the time run on without

thinking. Mrs. Harker was not down when the maid came to announce

dinner, so I said: “She is possibly tired; let dinner wait an hour,” and

I went on with my work. I had just finished Mrs. Harker’s diary, when

she came in. She looked sweetly pretty, but very sad, and her eyes were

flushed with crying. This somehow moved me much. Of late I have had

cause for tears, God knows! but the relief of them was denied me; and

now the sight of those sweet eyes, brightened with recent tears, went

straight to my heart. So I said as gently as I could:--

“I greatly fear I have distressed you.”

“Oh, no, not distressed me,” she replied, “but I have been more touched

than I can say by your grief. That is a wonderful machine, but it is

cruelly true. It told me, in its very tones, the anguish of your heart.

It was like a soul crying out to Almighty God. No one must hear them

spoken ever again! See, I have tried to be useful. I have copied out the

words on my typewriter, and none other need now hear your heart beat, as

I did.”

“No one need ever know, shall ever know,” I said in a low voice. She

laid her hand on mine and said very gravely:--

“Ah, but they must!”

“Must! But why?” I asked.

“Because it is a part of the terrible story, a part of poor dear Lucy’s

death and all that led to it; because in the struggle which we have

before us to rid the earth of this terrible monster we must have all

the knowledge and all the help which we can get. I think that the

cylinders which you gave me contained more than you intended me to know;

but I can see that there are in your record many lights to this dark

mystery. You will let me help, will you not? I know all up to a certain

point; and I see already, though your diary only took me to 7 September,

how poor Lucy was beset, and how her terrible doom was being wrought

out. Jonathan and I have been working day and night since Professor Van

Helsing saw us. He is gone to Whitby to get more information, and he

will be here to-morrow to help us. We need have no secrets amongst us;

working together and with absolute trust, we can surely be stronger than

if some of us were in the dark.” She looked at me so appealingly, and at

the same time manifested such courage and resolution in her bearing,

that I gave in at once to her wishes. “You shall,” I said, “do as you

like in the matter. God forgive me if I do wrong! There are terrible

things yet to learn of; but if you have so far travelled on the road to

poor Lucy’s death, you will not be content, I know, to remain in the

dark. Nay, the end--the very end--may give you a gleam of peace. Come,

there is dinner. We must keep one another strong for what is before us;