But it seemed impossible. The machinery worked perfectly, and though

Silent Sam took his passengers high and low, in big circles and small

ones, there was no appreciable noise from the motor. The passengers

could converse as easily, and with as little effort, as in a balloon.

"Of course that isn't the prime requisite," said Mr. Terrill, "but it

is a good one. What we want is a machine that can sail over the enemy's

lines at night without being heard, and I think this one will do it--in

fact, I'm sure it will. Of course the ability of the passengers to

converse and not have to use the uncertain tube is a great advantage."

As Tom Swift sailed on and on, it became evident that the test was

going to be a success. The afternoon passed, and it began to grow dark,

but a glorious full moon came up.

"Shall I take you down?" the young inventor asked Mr. Terrill.

"Not quite yet. I thoroughly enjoy this, and it isn't often I get a

chance for a moonlight airship ride. Go a little lower, if you please,

and we'll see if we attract any attention from the inhabitants of the

earth. We'll see if they can possibly hear the machine, though I don't

see how they can."

And they did not. Tom piloted the machine over Shopton, sailing

directly over the center of the town, where there was a big crowd

walking about. Though the airship sailed only a few hundred feet above

their heads, not a person was aware of it, since the craft's lights

were put out for this test.

"That settles it," said Mr. Terrill. "You have succeeded, Tom Swift!"

But Tom was not yet satisfied. He wanted a longer test. Hardly knowing

why he did it he sent the craft in the direction of Mary Nestor's home.

As he sailed across her lawn he saw, in the moonlight, that she and her

mother were walking in the garden. They did not look up as the

aircraft passed over their heads, and were totally unaware of its

presence, unless they caught a glimpse of it as it flitted silently

along, like some great bird of the night.

"It is perfectly wonderful!" declared Mr. Terrill, and he spoke in

ordinary tones, that carried perfectly to the ears of Tom and Mr. Damon.

"Wonderful!" cried the eccentric man. "Bless my chimney, but it's the

greatest invention in the world! Yes, it is! Don't tell me it 'isn't!"

And no one did.

Passing the Nestor home, the saddened occupants of which were unaware

of the passage, Tom sent the Air Scout about in a circle, intending to

proceed to the hangar. And then, some whim, perhaps, caused him to

guide Silent Sam out toward the lonely hut. Mr. Damon and Mr. Tenrill

seemed perfectly content to sail on and on indefinitely in the

moonlight. Tom thought he would take them over a lonely neighborhood,

and then bring them back.

In a little while the craft was directly over the stretch of country

where the aeroplane accident had occurred, and where Tom and Jackson

had found the deserted hut.

Rather idly Tom looked down, wondering if the Secret Service men were

on the watch and if they had discovered anything.

Suddenly Tom was aware of an automobile moving along the field path

toward the cabin. There were two men in the car, both on the front

seat, and as Tom looked down the brilliant moonlight showed him the

figure of another man, behind, and huddled in the tonneau of the car.

The aeroplane was low enough for all these details to be seen by the

moon's gleam, but the men in the car, not hearing any noise, did not

look up, so they were unconscious of this aerial espionage.

"Look! Look!" exclaimed Tom in a low voice to his companions. "Doesn't

that seem suspicious?"

CHAPTER XXV

THE GOLD TOOTH

Eagerly Mr. Damon and the government agent leaned over and looked down.

In the moonlight they saw the same sight that had attracted Tom Swift.

The touring car, the two men in front, and the huddled, bound figure in

the back.

"Can you go down, Tom, without letting them hear you?" asked Mr. Damon,

using a low voice, as if fearful the men in the automobile would hear

him.

"I guess so," answered the young inventor. "I can land nearer to the

cabin than Jackson and I did, and then we can see what these fellows