heavy whip. It was a terrible blow; but he did not seem to mind it, but

seized him also, and struggled with the three of us, pulling us to and

fro as if we were kittens. You know I am no light weight, and the others

were both burly men. At first he was silent in his fighting; but as we

began to master him, and the attendants were putting a strait-waistcoat

on him, he began to shout: ‘I’ll frustrate them! They shan’t rob me!

they shan’t murder me by inches! I’ll fight for my Lord and Master!’ and

all sorts of similar incoherent ravings. It was with very considerable

difficulty that they got him back to the house and put him in the padded

room. One of the attendants, Hardy, had a finger broken. However, I set

it all right; and he is going on well.

“The two carriers were at first loud in their threats of actions for

damages, and promised to rain all the penalties of the law on us. Their

threats were, however, mingled with some sort of indirect apology for

the defeat of the two of them by a feeble madman. They said that if it

had not been for the way their strength had been spent in carrying and

raising the heavy boxes to the cart they would have made short work of

him. They gave as another reason for their defeat the extraordinary

state of drouth to which they had been reduced by the dusty nature of

their occupation and the reprehensible distance from the scene of their

labours of any place of public entertainment. I quite understood their

drift, and after a stiff glass of grog, or rather more of the same, and

with each a sovereign in hand, they made light of the attack, and swore

that they would encounter a worse madman any day for the pleasure of

meeting so ‘bloomin’ good a bloke’ as your correspondent. I took their

names and addresses, in case they might be needed. They are as

follows:--Jack Smollet, of Dudding’s Rents, King George’s Road, Great

Walworth, and Thomas Snelling, Peter Farley’s Row, Guide Court, Bethnal

Green. They are both in the employment of Harris & Sons, Moving and

Shipment Company, Orange Master’s Yard, Soho.

“I shall report to you any matter of interest occurring here, and shall

wire you at once if there is anything of importance.

“Believe me, dear Sir,

“Yours faithfully,

“PATRICK HENNESSEY.”

_Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra_.

(Unopened by her.)

“_18 September._

“My dearest Lucy,--

“Such a sad blow has befallen us. Mr. Hawkins has died very suddenly.

Some may not think it so sad for us, but we had both come to so love him

that it really seems as though we had lost a father. I never knew either

father or mother, so that the dear old man’s death is a real blow to me.

Jonathan is greatly distressed. It is not only that he feels sorrow,

deep sorrow, for the dear, good man who has befriended him all his life,

and now at the end has treated him like his own son and left him a

fortune which to people of our modest bringing up is wealth beyond the

dream of avarice, but Jonathan feels it on another account. He says the

amount of responsibility which it puts upon him makes him nervous. He

begins to doubt himself. I try to cheer him up, and _my_ belief in _him_

helps him to have a belief in himself. But it is here that the grave

shock that he experienced tells upon him the most. Oh, it is too hard

that a sweet, simple, noble, strong nature such as his--a nature which

enabled him by our dear, good friend’s aid to rise from clerk to master

in a few years--should be so injured that the very essence of its

strength is gone. Forgive me, dear, if I worry you with my troubles in

the midst of your own happiness; but, Lucy dear, I must tell some one,

for the strain of keeping up a brave and cheerful appearance to Jonathan

tries me, and I have no one here that I can confide in. I dread coming

up to London, as we must do the day after to-morrow; for poor Mr.

Hawkins left in his will that he was to be buried in the grave with his

father. As there are no relations at all, Jonathan will have to be chief

mourner. I shall try to run over to see you, dearest, if only for a few

minutes. Forgive me for troubling you. With all blessings,

“Your loving

“MINA HARKER.”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_20 September._--Only resolution and habit can let me make an entry