close, and the long disuse had made the air stagnant and foul. There was

an earthy smell, as of some dry miasma, which came through the fouler

air. But as to the odour itself, how shall I describe it? It was not

alone that it was composed of all the ills of mortality and with the

pungent, acrid smell of blood, but it seemed as though corruption had

become itself corrupt. Faugh! it sickens me to think of it. Every breath

exhaled by that monster seemed to have clung to the place and

intensified its loathsomeness.

Under ordinary circumstances such a stench would have brought our

enterprise to an end; but this was no ordinary case, and the high and

terrible purpose in which we were involved gave us a strength which rose

above merely physical considerations. After the involuntary shrinking

consequent on the first nauseous whiff, we one and all set about our

work as though that loathsome place were a garden of roses.

We made an accurate examination of the place, the Professor saying as we

began:--

“The first thing is to see how many of the boxes are left; we must then

examine every hole and corner and cranny and see if we cannot get some

clue as to what has become of the rest.” A glance was sufficient to show

how many remained, for the great earth chests were bulky, and there was

no mistaking them.

There were only twenty-nine left out of the fifty! Once I got a fright,

for, seeing Lord Godalming suddenly turn and look out of the vaulted

door into the dark passage beyond, I looked too, and for an instant my

heart stood still. Somewhere, looking out from the shadow, I seemed to

see the high lights of the Count’s evil face, the ridge of the nose, the

red eyes, the red lips, the awful pallor. It was only for a moment, for,

as Lord Godalming said, “I thought I saw a face, but it was only the

shadows,” and resumed his inquiry, I turned my lamp in the direction,

and stepped into the passage. There was no sign of any one; and as there

were no corners, no doors, no aperture of any kind, but only the solid

walls of the passage, there could be no hiding-place even for _him_. I

took it that fear had helped imagination, and said nothing.

A few minutes later I saw Morris step suddenly back from a corner, which

he was examining. We all followed his movements with our eyes, for

undoubtedly some nervousness was growing on us, and we saw a whole mass

of phosphorescence, which twinkled like stars. We all instinctively drew

back. The whole place was becoming alive with rats.

For a moment or two we stood appalled, all save Lord Godalming, who was

seemingly prepared for such an emergency. Rushing over to the great

iron-bound oaken door, which Dr. Seward had described from the outside,

and which I had seen myself, he turned the key in the lock, drew the

huge bolts, and swung the door open. Then, taking his little silver

whistle from his pocket, he blew a low, shrill call. It was answered

from behind Dr. Seward’s house by the yelping of dogs, and after about a

minute three terriers came dashing round the corner of the house.

Unconsciously we had all moved towards the door, and as we moved I

noticed that the dust had been much disturbed: the boxes which had been

taken out had been brought this way. But even in the minute that had

elapsed the number of the rats had vastly increased. They seemed to

swarm over the place all at once, till the lamplight, shining on their

moving dark bodies and glittering, baleful eyes, made the place look

like a bank of earth set with fireflies. The dogs dashed on, but at the

threshold suddenly stopped and snarled, and then, simultaneously lifting

their noses, began to howl in most lugubrious fashion. The rats were

multiplying in thousands, and we moved out.

Lord Godalming lifted one of the dogs, and carrying him in, placed him

on the floor. The instant his feet touched the ground he seemed to

recover his courage, and rushed at his natural enemies. They fled before

him so fast that before he had shaken the life out of a score, the other

dogs, who had by now been lifted in the same manner, had but small prey

ere the whole mass had vanished.

With their going it seemed as if some evil presence had departed, for

the dogs frisked about and barked merrily as they made sudden darts at

their prostrate foes, and turned them over and over and tossed them in

the air with vicious shakes. We all seemed to find our spirits rise.

Whether it was the purifying of the deadly atmosphere by the opening of

the chapel door, or the relief which we experienced by finding ourselves

in the open I know not; but most certainly the shadow of dread seemed to

slip from us like a robe, and the occasion of our coming lost something

of its grim significance, though we did not slacken a whit in our

resolution. We closed the outer door and barred and locked it, and