 Man. Then she is well, and nothing can be ill.

Her body sleepes in Capels Monument,

And her immortall part with Angels liue,

I saw her laid low in her kindreds Vault,

And presently tooke Poste to tell it you:

O pardon me for bringing these ill newes,

Since you did leaue it for my office Sir

 Rom. Is it euen so?

Then I denie you Starres.

Thou knowest my lodging, get me inke and paper,

And hire Post-Horses, I will hence to night

 Man. I do beseech you sir, haue patience:

Your lookes are pale and wild, and do import

Some misaduenture

 Rom. Tush, thou art deceiu'd,

Leaue me, and do the thing I bid thee do.

Hast thou no Letters to me from the Frier?

 Man. No my good Lord.

Exit Man.

 Rom. No matter: Get thee gone,

And hyre those Horses, Ile be with thee straight,

Well Iuliet, I will lie with thee to night:

Lets see for meanes, O mischiefe thou art swift,

To enter in the thoughts of desperate men:

I do remember an Appothecarie,

And here abouts dwells, which late I noted

In tattred weeds, with ouerwhelming browes,

Culling of Simples, meager were his lookes,

Sharp miserie had worne him to the bones:

And in his needie shop a Tortoyrs hung,

An Allegater stuft, and other skins

Of ill shap'd fishes, and about his shelues,

A beggerly account of emptie boxes ,

Greene earthen pots, Bladders, and mustie seedes,

Remnants of packthred, and old cakes of Roses

Were thinly scattered, to make vp a shew.

Noting this penury, to my selfe I said,

An if a man did need a poyson now,

Whose sale is present death in Mantua,

Here liues a Caitiffe wretch would sell it him.

O this same thought did but fore-run my need,

And this same needie man must sell it me.

As I remember, this should be the house,

Being holy day, the beggers shop is shut.

What ho? Appothecarie?

Enter Appothecarie.

 App. Who call's so low'd?

 Rom. Come hither man, I see that thou art poore,

Hold, there is fortie Duckets, let me haue

A dram of poyson, such soone speeding geare,

As will disperse it selfe through all the veines,

That the life-wearie-taker may fall dead,

And that the Trunke may be discharg'd of breath,

As violently, as hastie powder fier'd

Doth hurry from the fatall Canons wombe

 App. Such mortall drugs I haue, but Mantuas law

Is death to any he, that vtters them

 Rom. Art thou so bare and full of wretchednesse,

And fear'st to die? Famine is in thy cheekes,

Need and opression starueth in thy eyes,

Contempt and beggery hangs vpon thy backe:

The world is not thy friend, nor the worlds law:

The world affords no law to make thee rich.

Then be not poore, but breake it, and take this

 App. My pouerty, but not my will consents

 Rom. I pray thy pouerty, and not thy will

 App. Put this in any liquid thing you will

And drinke it off, and if you had the strength

Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight

 Rom. There's thy Gold,

Worse poyson to mens soules,

Doing more murther in this loathsome world,

Then these poore compounds that thou maiest not sell.

I sell thee poyson, thou hast sold me none,

Farewell, buy food, and get thy selfe in flesh.

Come Cordiall, and not poyson, go with me

To Iuliets graue, for there must I vse thee.

Exeunt.

Enter Frier Iohn to Frier Lawrence.

 Iohn. Holy Franciscan Frier, Brother, ho?

Enter Frier Lawrence.