be empiric. The criminal always work at one crime--that is the true

criminal who seems predestinate to crime, and who will of none other.

This criminal has not full man-brain. He is clever and cunning and

resourceful; but he be not of man-stature as to brain. He be of

child-brain in much. Now this criminal of ours is predestinate to crime

also; he, too, have child-brain, and it is of the child to do what he

have done. The little bird, the little fish, the little animal learn not

by principle, but empirically; and when he learn to do, then there is to

him the ground to start from to do more. ‘_Dos pou sto_,’ said

Archimedes. ‘Give me a fulcrum, and I shall move the world!’ To do once,

is the fulcrum whereby child-brain become man-brain; and until he have

the purpose to do more, he continue to do the same again every time,

just as he have done before! Oh, my dear, I see that your eyes are

opened, and that to you the lightning flash show all the leagues,” for

Mrs. Harker began to clap her hands and her eyes sparkled. He went on:--

“Now you shall speak. Tell us two dry men of science what you see with

those so bright eyes.” He took her hand and held it whilst she spoke.

His finger and thumb closed on her pulse, as I thought instinctively and

unconsciously, as she spoke:--

“The Count is a criminal and of criminal type. Nordau and Lombroso would

so classify him, and _quâ_ criminal he is of imperfectly formed mind.

Thus, in a difficulty he has to seek resource in habit. His past is a

clue, and the one page of it that we know--and that from his own

lips--tells that once before, when in what Mr. Morris would call a

‘tight place,’ he went back to his own country from the land he had

tried to invade, and thence, without losing purpose, prepared himself

for a new effort. He came again better equipped for his work; and won.

So he came to London to invade a new land. He was beaten, and when all

hope of success was lost, and his existence in danger, he fled back over

the sea to his home; just as formerly he had fled back over the Danube

from Turkey Land.”

“Good, good! oh, you so clever lady!” said Van Helsing,

enthusiastically, as he stooped and kissed her hand. A moment later he

said to me, as calmly as though we had been having a sick-room

consultation:--

“Seventy-two only; and in all this excitement. I have hope.” Turning to

her again, he said with keen expectation:--

“But go on. Go on! there is more to tell if you will. Be not afraid;

John and I know. I do in any case, and shall tell you if you are right.

Speak, without fear!”

“I will try to; but you will forgive me if I seem egotistical.”

“Nay! fear not, you must be egotist, for it is of you that we think.”

“Then, as he is criminal he is selfish; and as his intellect is small

and his action is based on selfishness, he confines himself to one

purpose. That purpose is remorseless. As he fled back over the Danube,

leaving his forces to be cut to pieces, so now he is intent on being

safe, careless of all. So his own selfishness frees my soul somewhat

from the terrible power which he acquired over me on that dreadful

night. I felt it! Oh, I felt it! Thank God, for His great mercy! My soul

is freer than it has been since that awful hour; and all that haunts me

is a fear lest in some trance or dream he may have used my knowledge for

his ends.” The Professor stood up:--

“He has so used your mind; and by it he has left us here in Varna,

whilst the ship that carried him rushed through enveloping fog up to

Galatz, where, doubtless, he had made preparation for escaping from us.

But his child-mind only saw so far; and it may be that, as ever is in

God’s Providence, the very thing that the evil-doer most reckoned on for

his selfish good, turns out to be his chiefest harm. The hunter is taken

in his own snare, as the great Psalmist says. For now that he think he

is free from every trace of us all, and that he has escaped us with so

many hours to him, then his selfish child-brain will whisper him to

sleep. He think, too, that as he cut himself off from knowing your mind,

there can be no knowledge of him to you; there is where he fail! That

terrible baptism of blood which he give you makes you free to go to him

in spirit, as you have as yet done in your times of freedom, when the