physical deformity in a young girl’s fantasy! Men call me wise. If

sages were ever wise in their own behoof, I might have foreseen all

this. I might have known that, as I came out of the vast and dismal

forest, and entered this settlement of Christian men, the very first

object to meet my eyes would be thyself, Hester Prynne, standing up, a

statue of ignominy, before the people. Nay, from the moment when we

came down the old church steps together, a married pair, I might have

beheld the bale-fire of that scarlet letter blazing at the end of our

path!”

“Thou knowest,” said Hester,—for, depressed as she was, she could not

endure this last quiet stab at the token of her shame,—“thou knowest

that I was frank with thee. I felt no love, nor feigned any.”

“True,” replied he. “It was my folly! I have said it. But, up to that

epoch of my life, I had lived in vain. The world had been so

cheerless! My heart was a habitation large enough for many guests, but

lonely and chill, and without a household fire. I longed to kindle

one! It seemed not so wild a dream,—old as I was, and sombre as I

was, and misshapen as I was,—that the simple bliss, which is

scattered far and wide, for all mankind to gather up, might yet be

mine. And so, Hester, I drew thee into my heart, into its innermost

chamber, and sought to warm thee by the warmth which thy presence made

there!”

“I have greatly wronged thee,” murmured Hester.

“We have wronged each other,” answered he. “Mine was the first wrong,

when I betrayed thy budding youth into a false and unnatural relation

with my decay. Therefore, as a man who has not thought and

philosophized in vain, I seek no vengeance, plot no evil against thee.

Between thee and me the scale hangs fairly balanced. But, Hester, the

man lives who has wronged us both! Who is he?”

“Ask me not!” replied Hester Prynne, looking firmly into his face.

“That thou shalt never know!”

“Never, sayest thou?” rejoined he, with a smile of dark and

self-relying intelligence. “Never know him! Believe me, Hester, there

are few things,—whether in the outward world, or, to a certain depth,

in the invisible sphere of thought,—few things hidden from the man

who devotes himself earnestly and unreservedly to the solution of a

mystery. Thou mayest cover up thy secret from the prying multitude.

Thou mayest conceal it, too, from the ministers and magistrates, even

as thou didst this day, when they sought to wrench the name out of thy

heart, and give thee a partner on thy pedestal. But, as for me, I come

to the inquest with other senses than they possess. I shall seek this

man, as I have sought truth in books; as I have sought gold in

alchemy. There is a sympathy that will make me conscious of him. I

shall see him tremble. I shall feel myself shudder, suddenly and

unawares. Sooner or later, he must needs be mine!”

The eyes of the wrinkled scholar glowed so intensely upon her, that

Hester Prynne clasped her hands over her heart, dreading lest he

should read the secret there at once.

“Thou wilt not reveal his name? Not the less he is mine,” resumed he,

with a look of confidence, as if destiny were at one with him. “He

bears no letter of infamy wrought into his garment, as thou dost; but

I shall read it on his heart. Yet fear not for him! Think not that I

shall interfere with Heaven’s own method of retribution, or, to my own

loss, betray him to the gripe of human law. Neither do thou imagine

that I shall contrive aught against his life; no, nor against his

fame, if, as I judge, he be a man of fair repute. Let him live! Let

him hide himself in outward honor, if he may! Not the less he shall be

mine!”

“Thy acts are like mercy,” said Hester, bewildered and appalled. “But

thy words interpret thee as a terror!”

“One thing, thou that wast my wife, I would enjoin upon thee,”

continued the scholar. “Thou hast kept the secret of thy paramour.