“Mother,” cried she, “I see you here. Look! Look!”

Hester looked, by way of humoring the child; and she saw that, owing

to the peculiar effect of this convex mirror, the scarlet letter was

represented in exaggerated and gigantic proportions, so as to be

greatly the most prominent feature of her appearance. In truth, she

seemed absolutely hidden behind it. Pearl pointed upward, also, at a

similar picture in the head-piece; smiling at her mother, with the

elfish intelligence that was so familiar an expression on her small

physiognomy. That look of naughty merriment was likewise reflected in

the mirror, with so much breadth and intensity of effect, that it made

Hester Prynne feel as if it could not be the image of her own child,

but of an imp who was seeking to mould itself into Pearl’s shape.

“Come along, Pearl,” said she, drawing her away. “Come and look into

this fair garden. It may be we shall see flowers there; more beautiful

ones than we find in the woods.”

Pearl, accordingly, ran to the bow-window, at the farther end of the

hall, and looked along the vista of a garden-walk, carpeted with

closely shaven grass, and bordered with some rude and immature attempt

at shrubbery. But the proprietor appeared already to have

relinquished, as hopeless, the effort to perpetuate on this side of

the Atlantic, in a hard soil and amid the close struggle for

subsistence, the native English taste for ornamental gardening.

Cabbages grew in plain sight; and a pumpkin-vine, rooted at some

distance, had run across the intervening space, and deposited one of

its gigantic products directly beneath the hall-window; as if to warn

the Governor that this great lump of vegetable gold was as rich an

ornament as New England earth would offer him. There were a few

rose-bushes, however, and a number of apple-trees, probably the

descendants of those planted by the Reverend Mr. Blackstone, the first

settler of the peninsula; that half-mythological personage, who rides

through our early annals, seated on the back of a bull.

Pearl, seeing the rose-bushes, began to cry for a red rose, and would

not be pacified.

“Hush, child, hush!” said her mother, earnestly. “Do not cry, dear

little Pearl! I hear voices in the garden. The Governor is coming, and

gentlemen along with him!”

In fact, adown the vista of the garden avenue a number of persons were

seen approaching towards the house. Pearl, in utter scorn of her

mother’s attempt to quiet her, gave an eldritch scream, and then

became silent; not from any notion of obedience, but because the quick

and mobile curiosity of her disposition was excited by the appearance

of these new personages.

 [Illustration]

 VIII.

 THE ELF-CHILD AND THE MINISTER.

Governor Bellingham, in a loose gown and easy cap,—such as elderly

gentlemen loved to endue themselves with, in their domestic

privacy,—walked foremost, and appeared to be showing off his estate,

and expatiating on his projected improvements. The wide circumference

of an elaborate ruff, beneath his gray beard, in the antiquated

fashion of King James’s reign, caused his head to look not a little

like that of John the Baptist in a charger. The impression made by his

aspect, so rigid and severe, and frost-bitten with more than autumnal

age, was hardly in keeping with the appliances of worldly enjoyment

wherewith he had evidently done his utmost to surround himself. But it

is an error to suppose that our grave forefathers—though accustomed

to speak and think of human existence as a state merely of trial and

warfare, and though unfeignedly prepared to sacrifice goods and life

at the behest of duty—made it a matter of conscience to reject such

means of comfort, or even luxury, as lay fairly within their grasp.

This creed was never taught, for instance, by the venerable pastor,

John Wilson, whose beard, white as a snow-drift, was seen over

Governor Bellingham’s shoulder; while its wearer suggested that pears

and peaches might yet be naturalized in the New England climate, and

that purple grapes might possibly be compelled to nourish, against the

sunny garden-wall. The old clergyman, nurtured at the rich bosom of

the English Church, had a long-established and legitimate taste for

all good and comfortable things; and however stern he might show

himself in the pulpit, or in his public reproof of such transgressions

as that of Hester Prynne, still the genial benevolence of his private

life had won him warmer affection than was accorded to any of his

professional contemporaries.

Behind the Governor and Mr. Wilson came two other guests: one the

Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale, whom the reader may remember as having

taken a brief and reluctant part in the scene of Hester Prynne’s

disgrace; and, in close companionship with him, old Roger

Chillingworth, a person of great skill in physic, who, for two or

three years past, had been settled in the town. It was understood that

this learned man was the physician as well as friend of the young

minister, whose health had severely suffered, of late, by his too

unreserved self-sacrifice to the labors and duties of the pastoral