The horrible conceit of death and night,

Together with the terror of the place,

As in a Vaulte, an ancient receptacle,

Where for these many hundred yeeres the bones

Of all my buried Auncestors are packt,

Where bloody Tybalt, yet but greene in earth,

Lies festring in his shrow'd, where as they say,

At some houres in the night, Spirits resort:

Alacke, alacke, is it not like that I

So early waking, what with loathsome smels,

And shrikes like Mandrakes torne out of the earth,

That liuing mortalls hearing them, run mad.

O if I wake, shall I not be distraught,

Inuironed with all these hidious feares,

And madly play with my forefathers ioynts?

And plucke the mangled Tybalt from his shrow'd?

And in this rage, with some great kinsmans bone,

As (with a club) dash out my desperate braines.

O looke, me thinks I see my Cozins Ghost,

Seeking out Romeo that did spit his body

Vpon my Rapiers point: stay Tybalt, stay;

Romeo, Romeo, Romeo, here's drinke: I drinke to thee.

Enter Lady of the house, and Nurse.

 Lady. Hold,

Take these keies, and fetch more spices Nurse

 Nur. They call for Dates and Quinces in the Pastrie.

Enter old Capulet.

 Cap. Come, stir, stir, stir,

The second Cocke hath Crow'd,

The Curphew Bell hath rung, 'tis three a clocke:

Looke to the bakte meates, good Angelica,

Spare not for cost

 Nur. Go you Cot-queane, go,

Get you to bed, faith youle be sicke to morrow

For this nights watching

 Cap. No not a whit: what? I haue watcht ere now

All night for lesse cause, and nere beene sicke

 La. I you haue bin a Mouse-hunt in your time,

But I will watch you from such watching now.

Exit Lady and Nurse.

 Cap. A iealous hood, a iealous hood,

Now fellow, what there?

Enter three or foure with spits, and logs, and baskets.

 Fel. Things for the Cooke sir, but I know not what

 Cap. Make hast, make hast, sirrah, fetch drier Logs.

Call Peter, he will shew thee where they are

 Fel. I haue a head sir, that will find out logs,

And neuer trouble Peter for the matter

 Cap. Masse and well said, a merrie horson, ha,

Thou shalt be loggerhead; good Father, 'tis day.

Play Musicke

The Countie will be here with Musicke straight,

For so he said he would, I heare him neere,

Nurse, wife, what ho? what Nurse I say?

Enter Nurse.

Go waken Iuliet, go and trim her vp,

Ile go and chat with Paris: hie, make hast,

Make hast, the Bridegroome, he is come already:

Make hast I say

 Nur. Mistris, what Mistris? Iuliet? Fast I warrant her she.

Why Lambe, why Lady? fie you sluggabed,

Why Loue I say? Madam, sweet heart: why Bride?

What not a word? You take your peniworths now.

Sleepe for a weeke, for the next night I warrant

The Countie Paris hath set vp his rest,

That you shall rest but little, God forgiue me:

Marrie and Amen: how sound is she a sleepe?

I must needs wake her: Madam, Madam, Madam,

I, let the Countie take you in your bed,

Heele fright you vp yfaith. Will it not be?

What drest, and in your clothes, and downe againe?

I must needs wake you: Lady, Lady, Lady?

Alas, alas, helpe, helpe, my Ladyes dead,

Oh weladay, that euer I was borne,

Some Aqua-vitæ ho, my Lord, my Lady?

 Mo. What noise is heere?

Enter Mother.