these three weeks.”

She could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse

with her, he might have better success. He stood by her, however, for

some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young lady’s whispering

to Elizabeth again, he walked away.

When the tea things were removed, and the card tables placed, the ladies

all rose; and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by him, when

all her views were overthrown, by seeing him fall a victim to her

mother’s rapacity for whist players, and in a few moments after seated

with the rest of the party. She now lost every expectation of pleasure.

They were confined for the evening at different tables; and she had

nothing to hope, but that his eyes were so often turned towards her side

of the room, as to make him play as unsuccessfully as herself.

Mrs. Bennet had designed to keep the two Netherfield gentlemen to

supper; but their carriage was, unluckily, ordered before any of the

others, and she had no opportunity of detaining them.

“Well, girls,” said she, as soon as they were left to themselves, “what

say you to the day? I think everything has passed off uncommonly well, I

assure you. The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw. The

venison was roasted to a turn--and everybody said, they never saw so fat

a haunch. The soup was fifty times better than what we had at the

Lucases’ last week; and even Mr. Darcy acknowledged that the partridges

were remarkably well done; and I suppose he has two or three French

cooks at least. And, my dear Jane, I never saw you look in greater

beauty. Mrs. Long said so too, for I asked her whether you did not. And

what do you think she said besides? ‘Ah! Mrs. Bennet, we shall have her

at Netherfield at last!’ She did, indeed. I do think Mrs. Long is as

good a creature as ever lived--and her nieces are very pretty behaved

girls, and not at all handsome: I like them prodigiously.”

[Illustration:

 “M^{rs}. Long and her nieces.”

]

Mrs. Bennet, in short, was in very great spirits: she had seen enough of

Bingley’s behaviour to Jane to be convinced that she would get him at

last; and her expectations of advantage to her family, when in a happy

humour, were so far beyond reason, that she was quite disappointed at

not seeing him there again the next day, to make his proposals.

“It has been a very agreeable day,” said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth. “The

party seemed so well selected, so suitable one with the other. I hope we

may often meet again.”

Elizabeth smiled.

“Lizzy, you must not do so. You must not suspect me. It mortifies me. I

assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an

agreeable and sensible young man without having a wish beyond it. I am

perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now are, that he never had

any design of engaging my affection. It is only that he is blessed with

greater sweetness of address, and a stronger desire of generally

pleasing, than any other man.”

“You are very cruel,” said her sister, “you will not let me smile, and

are provoking me to it every moment.”

“How hard it is in some cases to be believed! And how impossible in

others! But why should you wish to persuade me that I feel more than I

acknowledge?”

“That is a question which I hardly know how to answer. We all love to

instruct, though we can teach only what is not worth knowing. Forgive

me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make _me_ your

confidante.”

[Illustration:

 “Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak to you.”

]

CHAPTER LV.

[Illustration]

A few days after this visit, Mr. Bingley called again, and alone. His

friend had left him that morning for London, but was to return home in

ten days’ time. He sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably

good spirits. Mrs. Bennet invited him to dine with them; but, with many

expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere.

“Next time you call,” said she, “I hope we shall be more lucky.”

He should be particularly happy at any time, etc., etc.; and if she

would give him leave, would take an early opportunity of waiting on

them.