till, on descending, he could drink the oil of all the church lamps? Can

you tell me why in the Pampas, ay and elsewhere, there are bats that

come at night and open the veins of cattle and horses and suck dry their

veins; how in some islands of the Western seas there are bats which hang

on the trees all day, and those who have seen describe as like giant

nuts or pods, and that when the sailors sleep on the deck, because that

it is hot, flit down on them, and then--and then in the morning are

found dead men, white as even Miss Lucy was?”

“Good God, Professor!” I said, starting up. “Do you mean to tell me that

Lucy was bitten by such a bat; and that such a thing is here in London

in the nineteenth century?” He waved his hand for silence, and went

on:--

“Can you tell me why the tortoise lives more long than generations of

men; why the elephant goes on and on till he have seen dynasties; and

why the parrot never die only of bite of cat or dog or other complaint?

Can you tell me why men believe in all ages and places that there are

some few who live on always if they be permit; that there are men and

women who cannot die? We all know--because science has vouched for the

fact--that there have been toads shut up in rocks for thousands of

years, shut in one so small hole that only hold him since the youth of

the world. Can you tell me how the Indian fakir can make himself to die

and have been buried, and his grave sealed and corn sowed on it, and the

corn reaped and be cut and sown and reaped and cut again, and then men

come and take away the unbroken seal and that there lie the Indian

fakir, not dead, but that rise up and walk amongst them as before?” Here

I interrupted him. I was getting bewildered; he so crowded on my mind

his list of nature’s eccentricities and possible impossibilities that my

imagination was getting fired. I had a dim idea that he was teaching me

some lesson, as long ago he used to do in his study at Amsterdam; but

he used then to tell me the thing, so that I could have the object of

thought in mind all the time. But now I was without this help, yet I

wanted to follow him, so I said:--

“Professor, let me be your pet student again. Tell me the thesis, so

that I may apply your knowledge as you go on. At present I am going in

my mind from point to point as a mad man, and not a sane one, follows an

idea. I feel like a novice lumbering through a bog in a mist, jumping

from one tussock to another in the mere blind effort to move on without

knowing where I am going.”

“That is good image,” he said. “Well, I shall tell you. My thesis is

this: I want you to believe.”

“To believe what?”

“To believe in things that you cannot. Let me illustrate. I heard once

of an American who so defined faith: ‘that faculty which enables us to

believe things which we know to be untrue.’ For one, I follow that man.

He meant that we shall have an open mind, and not let a little bit of

truth check the rush of a big truth, like a small rock does a railway

truck. We get the small truth first. Good! We keep him, and we value

him; but all the same we must not let him think himself all the truth in

the universe.”

“Then you want me not to let some previous conviction injure the

receptivity of my mind with regard to some strange matter. Do I read

your lesson aright?”

“Ah, you are my favourite pupil still. It is worth to teach you. Now

that you are willing to understand, you have taken the first step to

understand. You think then that those so small holes in the children’s

throats were made by the same that made the hole in Miss Lucy?”

“I suppose so.” He stood up and said solemnly:--

“Then you are wrong. Oh, would it were so! but alas! no. It is worse,

far, far worse.”

“In God’s name, Professor Van Helsing, what do you mean?” I cried.

He threw himself with a despairing gesture into a chair, and placed his

elbows on the table, covering his face with his hands as he spoke:--

“They were made by Miss Lucy!”

CHAPTER XV

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY--_continued_.

For a while sheer anger mastered me; it was as if he had during her life

struck Lucy on the face. I smote the table hard and rose up as I said to

him:--

“Dr. Van Helsing, are you mad?” He raised his head and looked at me, and

somehow the tenderness of his face calmed me at once. “Would I were!” he