We had dinner and went to bed early. To-morrow we are to see the

Vice-Consul, and to arrange, if we can, about getting on board the ship

as soon as she arrives. Van Helsing says that our chance will be to get

on the boat between sunrise and sunset. The Count, even if he takes the

form of a bat, cannot cross the running water of his own volition, and

so cannot leave the ship. As he dare not change to man’s form without

suspicion--which he evidently wishes to avoid--he must remain in the

box. If, then, we can come on board after sunrise, he is at our mercy;

for we can open the box and make sure of him, as we did of poor Lucy,

before he wakes. What mercy he shall get from us will not count for

much. We think that we shall not have much trouble with officials or the

seamen. Thank God! this is the country where bribery can do anything,

and we are well supplied with money. We have only to make sure that the

ship cannot come into port between sunset and sunrise without our being

warned, and we shall be safe. Judge Moneybag will settle this case, I

think!

 * * * * *

_16 October._--Mina’s report still the same: lapping waves and rushing

water, darkness and favouring winds. We are evidently in good time, and

when we hear of the _Czarina Catherine_ we shall be ready. As she must

pass the Dardanelles we are sure to have some report.

 * * * * *

_17 October._--Everything is pretty well fixed now, I think, to welcome

the Count on his return from his tour. Godalming told the shippers that

he fancied that the box sent aboard might contain something stolen from

a friend of his, and got a half consent that he might open it at his own

risk. The owner gave him a paper telling the Captain to give him every

facility in doing whatever he chose on board the ship, and also a

similar authorisation to his agent at Varna. We have seen the agent, who

was much impressed with Godalming’s kindly manner to him, and we are all

satisfied that whatever he can do to aid our wishes will be done. We

have already arranged what to do in case we get the box open. If the

Count is there, Van Helsing and Seward will cut off his head at once and

drive a stake through his heart. Morris and Godalming and I shall

prevent interference, even if we have to use the arms which we shall

have ready. The Professor says that if we can so treat the Count’s body,

it will soon after fall into dust. In such case there would be no

evidence against us, in case any suspicion of murder were aroused. But

even if it were not, we should stand or fall by our act, and perhaps

some day this very script may be evidence to come between some of us and

a rope. For myself, I should take the chance only too thankfully if it

were to come. We mean to leave no stone unturned to carry out our

intent. We have arranged with certain officials that the instant the

_Czarina Catherine_ is seen, we are to be informed by a special

messenger.

 * * * * *

_24 October._--A whole week of waiting. Daily telegrams to Godalming,

but only the same story: “Not yet reported.” Mina’s morning and evening

hypnotic answer is unvaried: lapping waves, rushing water, and creaking

masts.

_Telegram, October 24th._

_Rufus Smith, Lloyd’s, London, to Lord Godalming, care of H. B. M.

Vice-Consul, Varna._

“_Czarina Catherine_ reported this morning from Dardanelles.”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_25 October._--How I miss my phonograph! To write diary with a pen is

irksome to me; but Van Helsing says I must. We were all wild with

excitement yesterday when Godalming got his telegram from Lloyd’s. I

know now what men feel in battle when the call to action is heard. Mrs.

Harker, alone of our party, did not show any signs of emotion. After

all, it is not strange that she did not; for we took special care not to

let her know anything about it, and we all tried not to show any

excitement when we were in her presence. In old days she would, I am

sure, have noticed, no matter how we might have tried to conceal it; but

in this way she is greatly changed during the past three weeks. The