movements from within the cindery cylinder. He was all alone on the

common.

Then suddenly he noticed with a start that some of the grey clinker,

the ashy incrustation that covered the meteorite, was falling off the

circular edge of the end. It was dropping off in flakes and raining

down upon the sand. A large piece suddenly came off and fell with a

sharp noise that brought his heart into his mouth.

For a minute he scarcely realised what this meant, and, although the

heat was excessive, he clambered down into the pit close to the bulk to

see the Thing more clearly. He fancied even then that the cooling of

the body might account for this, but what disturbed that idea was the

fact that the ash was falling only from the end of the cylinder.

And then he perceived that, very slowly, the circular top of the

cylinder was rotating on its body. It was such a gradual movement that

he discovered it only through noticing that a black mark that had been

near him five minutes ago was now at the other side of the

circumference. Even then he scarcely understood what this indicated,

until he heard a muffled grating sound and saw the black mark jerk

forward an inch or so. Then the thing came upon him in a flash. The

cylinder was artificial—hollow—with an end that screwed out! Something

within the cylinder was unscrewing the top!

“Good heavens!” said Ogilvy. “There’s a man in it—men in it! Half

roasted to death! Trying to escape!”

At once, with a quick mental leap, he linked the Thing with the flash

upon Mars.

The thought of the confined creature was so dreadful to him that he

forgot the heat and went forward to the cylinder to help turn. But

luckily the dull radiation arrested him before he could burn his hands

on the still-glowing metal. At that he stood irresolute for a moment,

then turned, scrambled out of the pit, and set off running wildly into

Woking. The time then must have been somewhere about six o’clock. He

met a waggoner and tried to make him understand, but the tale he told

and his appearance were so wild—his hat had fallen off in the pit—that

the man simply drove on. He was equally unsuccessful with the potman

who was just unlocking the doors of the public-house by Horsell Bridge.

The fellow thought he was a lunatic at large and made an unsuccessful

attempt to shut him into the taproom. That sobered him a little; and

when he saw Henderson, the London journalist, in his garden, he called

over the palings and made himself understood.

“Henderson,” he called, “you saw that shooting star last night?”

“Well?” said Henderson.

“It’s out on Horsell Common now.”

“Good Lord!” said Henderson. “Fallen meteorite! That’s good.”

“But it’s something more than a meteorite. It’s a cylinder—an

artificial cylinder, man! And there’s something inside.”

Henderson stood up with his spade in his hand.

“What’s that?” he said. He was deaf in one ear.

Ogilvy told him all that he had seen. Henderson was a minute or so

taking it in. Then he dropped his spade, snatched up his jacket, and

came out into the road. The two men hurried back at once to the common,

and found the cylinder still lying in the same position. But now the

sounds inside had ceased, and a thin circle of bright metal showed

between the top and the body of the cylinder. Air was either entering

or escaping at the rim with a thin, sizzling sound.

They listened, rapped on the scaly burnt metal with a stick, and,

meeting with no response, they both concluded the man or men inside

must be insensible or dead.

Of course the two were quite unable to do anything. They shouted

consolation and promises, and went off back to the town again to get

help. One can imagine them, covered with sand, excited and disordered,

running up the little street in the bright sunlight just as the shop

folks were taking down their shutters and people were opening their

bedroom windows. Henderson went into the railway station at once, in

order to telegraph the news to London. The newspaper articles had

prepared men’s minds for the reception of the idea.

By eight o’clock a number of boys and unemployed men had already

started for the common to see the “dead men from Mars.” That was the