“_Now_ where’s your Number Two? ‘_under the cross_,’ hey? Right yonder’s
where I saw Injun Joe poke up his candle, Huck!”

Huck stared at the mystic sign awhile, and then said with a shaky voice:

“Tom, less git out of here!”

“What! and leave the treasure?”

“Yes—leave it. Injun Joe’s ghost is round about there, certain.”

“No it ain’t, Huck, no it ain’t. It would ha’nt the place where he
died—away out at the mouth of the cave—five mile from here.”

“No, Tom, it wouldn’t. It would hang round the money. I know the ways of
ghosts, and so do you.”

Tom began to fear that Huck was right. Misgivings gathered in his mind.
But presently an idea occurred to him—

“Lookyhere, Huck, what fools we’re making of ourselves! Injun Joe’s
ghost ain’t a going to come around where there’s a cross!”

The point was well taken. It had its effect.

“Tom, I didn’t think of that. But that’s so. It’s luck for us, that
cross is. I reckon we’ll climb down there and have a hunt for that box.”

Tom went first, cutting rude steps in the clay hill as he descended.
Huck followed. Four avenues opened out of the small cavern which the
great rock stood in. The boys examined three of them with no result.
They found a small recess in the one nearest the base of the rock, with
a pallet of blankets spread down in it; also an old suspender, some
bacon rind, and the well-gnawed bones of two or three fowls. But there
was no moneybox. The lads searched and researched this place, but in
vain. Tom said:

“He said _under_ the cross. Well, this comes nearest to being under the
cross. It can’t be under the rock itself, because that sets solid on the
ground.”

They searched everywhere once more, and then sat down discouraged. Huck
could suggest nothing. By-and-by Tom said:

“Lookyhere, Huck, there’s footprints and some candle-grease on the clay
about one side of this rock, but not on the other sides. Now, what’s
that for? I bet you the money _is_ under the rock. I’m going to dig in
the clay.”

“That ain’t no bad notion, Tom!” said Huck with animation.

Tom’s “real Barlow” was out at once, and he had not dug four inches
before he struck wood.

“Hey, Huck!—you hear that?”

Huck began to dig and scratch now. Some boards were soon uncovered and
removed. They had concealed a natural chasm which led under the rock.
Tom got into this and held his candle as far under the rock as he
could, but said he could not see to the end of the rift. He proposed
to explore. He stooped and passed under; the narrow way descended
gradually. He followed its winding course, first to the right, then to
the left, Huck at his heels. Tom turned a short curve, by-and-by, and
exclaimed:

“My goodness, Huck, lookyhere!”

It was the treasure-box, sure enough, occupying a snug little cavern,
along with an empty powder-keg, a couple of guns in leather cases, two
or three pairs of old moccasins, a leather belt, and some other rubbish
well soaked with the water-drip.

“Got it at last!” said Huck, ploughing among the tarnished coins with
his hand. “My, but we’re rich, Tom!”

“Huck, I always reckoned we’d get it. It’s just too good to believe, but
we _have_ got it, sure! Say—let’s not fool around here. Let’s snake it
out. Lemme see if I can lift the box.”

It weighed about fifty pounds. Tom could lift it, after an awkward
fashion, but could not carry it conveniently.

“I thought so,” he said; “_They_ carried it like it was heavy, that day
at the ha’nted house. I noticed that. I reckon I was right to think of
fetching the little bags along.”

The money was soon in the bags and the boys took it up to the cross
rock.

“Now less fetch the guns and things,” said Huck.

“No, Huck—leave them there. They’re just the tricks to have when we
go to robbing. We’ll keep them there all the time, and we’ll hold our
orgies there, too. It’s an awful snug place for orgies.”

“What orgies?”

“I dono. But robbers always have orgies, and of course we’ve got to
have them, too. Come along, Huck, we’ve been in here a long time. It’s
getting late, I reckon. I’m hungry, too. We’ll eat and smoke when we get
to the skiff.”

They presently emerged into the clump of sumach bushes, looked warily
out, found the coast clear, and were soon lunching and smoking in the
skiff. As the sun dipped toward the horizon they pushed out and got
under way. Tom skimmed up the shore through the long twilight, chatting
cheerily with Huck, and landed shortly after dark.

“Now, Huck,” said Tom, “we’ll hide the money in the loft of the widow’s
woodshed, and I’ll come up in the morning and we’ll count it and divide,
and then we’ll hunt up a place out in the woods for it where it will be
safe. Just you lay quiet here and watch the stuff till I run and hook
Benny Taylor’s little wagon; I won’t be gone a minute.”

He disappeared, and presently returned with the wagon, put the two small
sacks into it, threw some old rags on top of them, and started off,
dragging his cargo behind him. When the boys reached the Welshman’s
house, they stopped to rest. Just as they were about to move on, the
Welshman stepped out and said:

“Hallo, who’s that?”

“Huck and Tom Sawyer.”

“Good! Come along with me, boys, you are keeping everybody waiting.
Here—hurry up, trot ahead—I’ll haul the wagon for you. Why, it’s not as
light as it might be. Got bricks in it?—or old metal?”

“Old metal,” said Tom.

“I judged so; the boys in this town will take more trouble and fool away
more time hunting up six bits’ worth of old iron to sell to the foundry
than they would to make twice the money at regular work. But that’s
human nature—hurry along, hurry along!”