With merrie looke

 Cap. How now my headstrong,

Where haue you bin gadding?

 Iul. Where I haue learnt me to repent the sin

Of disobedient opposition:

To you and your behests, and am enioyn'd

By holy Lawrence, to fall prostrate here,

To beg your pardon: pardon I beseech you,

Henceforward I am euer rul'd by you

 Cap. Send for the Countie, goe tell him of this,

Ile haue this knot knit vp to morrow morning

 Iul. I met the youthfull Lord at Lawrence Cell,

And gaue him what becomed Loue I might,

Not stepping ore the bounds of modestie

 Cap. Why I am glad on't, this is well, stand vp,

This is as't should be, let me see the County:

I marrie go I say, and fetch him hither.

Now afore God, this reueren'd holy Frier,

All our whole Cittie is much bound to him

 Iul. Nurse will you goe with me into my Closet,

To helpe me sort such needfull ornaments,

As you thinke fit to furnish me to morrow?

 Mo. No not till Thursday, there's time inough

 Fa. Go Nurse, go with her,

Weele to Church to morrow.

Exeunt. Iuliet and Nurse.

 Mo. We shall be short in our prouision,

'Tis now neere night

 Fa. Tush, I will stirre about,

And all things shall be well, I warrant thee wife:

Go thou to Iuliet, helpe to decke vp her,

Ile not to bed to night, let me alone:

Ile play the huswife for this once. What ho?

They are all forth, well I will walke my selfe

To Countie Paris, to prepare him vp

Against to morrow, my heart is wondrous light,

Since this same way-ward Gyrle is so reclaim'd.

Exeunt. Father and Mother.

Enter Iuliet and Nurse.

 Iul. I those attires are best, but gentle Nurse

I pray thee leaue me to my selfe to night:

For I haue need of many Orysons,

To moue the heauens to smile vpon my state,

Which well thou know'st, is crosse and full of sin.

Enter Mother.

 Mo. What are you busie ho? need you my help?

 Iul. No Madam, we haue cul'd such necessaries

As are behoouefull for our state to morrow:

So please you, let me now be left alone;

And let the Nurse this night sit vp with you,

For I am sure, you haue your hands full all,

In this so sudden businesse

 Mo. Goodnight.

Get thee to bed and rest, for thou hast need.

Exeunt.

 Iul. Farewell:

God knowes when we shall meete againe.

I haue a faint cold feare thrills through my veines,

That almost freezes vp the heate of fire:

Ile call them backe againe to comfort me.

Nurse, what should she do here?

My dismall Sceane, I needs must act alone:

Come Viall, what if this mixture do not worke at all?

Shall I be married then to morrow morning?

No, no, this shall forbid it. Lie thou there,

What if it be a poyson which the Frier

Subtilly hath ministred to haue me dead,

Least in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,

Because he married me before to Romeo?

I feare it is, and yet me thinkes it should not,

For he hath still beene tried a holy man.

How, if when I am laid into the Tombe,

I wake before the time that Romeo

Come to redeeme me? There's a fearefull point:

Shall I not then be stifled in the Vault?

To whose foule mouth no healthsome ayre breaths in,

And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes.

Or if I liue, is it not very like,