trip."

"Nonsense!" laughed Tom. "You're nervous; that's all."

"I suppose so. Don't think I'm going to back out, or anything like

that, but I wish it were successfully over with, Tom Swift, I most

certainly do."

"It will be in a little while," returned Tom, as he settled himself

comfortably in his seat and pulled the safety strap tight. "You've gone

up in this same plane before, when it didn't have the silent motor

aboard."

"Yes, I know I have. Oh, I dare say it will be all right, Tom. And

yet, somehow, I can't help feeling--"

But Tom Swift felt that the best way to set Mr. Damon's premonitions to

rest was to start the motor, and this he gave orders to have done,

Jackson and some others of the men from the shops congregating about

the craft to see the beginning of the night flight. Mr. Swift was there

also, and Eradicate. Mary Nestor had been invited, but her Red Cross

work engaged her that evening, she said. Ned Newton was away from town

on Liberty Bond business, and he could not be present at the test.

However, as Tom expected to have other trials when his motor was in

even better shape, he was not exactly sorry for the absence of his

friends.

"Contact!" called the young inventor, when Jackson had stepped back,

indicating it was time to throw over the switch.

"Let her go!" cried Tom, and the next moment the motor was in

operation, but so silently that his voice and that of Mr. Damon's could

easily be heard above the machinery.

"Good, Tom! That's good!" cried Mr. Swift, and Tom easily heard his

father's voice, though under other, and ordinary, circumstances this

would have been impossible.

True, the hearing of Tom and Mr. Damon was muffled to a certain extent

by the heavy leather and fur-lined caps they wore. But Tom had several

small eyelet holes set into the flaps just over the opening of the

ears, and these holes were sufficient to admit sounds, while keeping

out most of the cold that obtains in the upper regions.

The aeroplane moved swiftly along the level starting ground, and away

from the lighted hangars. Faster and faster it swung along as Tom

headed it into the wind, and then, as the speed of the motor increased,

the Air Scout suddenly left the earth and went soaring aloft as she had

done before.

But there was this difference. She moved almost as silently as a great

owl which swoops down out of the darkness--a bit of the velvety

blackness itself. Up and up, and onward and onward, went the Air Scout.

Tom Swift's improved, silent motor urged it onward, and as the young

inventor listened to catch the noise of the machinery, his heart gave a

bound of hope. For he could detect only very slight sounds.

"She's a success!" exulted Tom to himself. "She's a success, but she

isn't perfect yet," he added. "I've got to make the muffler bigger and

put in more baffle-plates. Then I think I can turn the trick."

He swung the machine out over the open country, and then, when they

were up at a height and sailing along easily, he called back to Mr.

Damon in the seat behind him:

"How do you like it?"

"Great!" exclaimed the eccentric man. "Bless my postage stamp, but it's

great! Why, there's hardly a sound, Tom, and I can hear you quite

easily."

"And I can hear you," added Tom. "I don't believe, down below there,"

and he nodded toward the earth, though Mr. Damon could not see this, as

the airship, save for a tiny light over the instrument board, was in

darkness, "they know that we're flying over their heads."

"I agree with you," was the answer. "Tom, my boy, I believe you've

solved the trick! You have produced a silent aeroplane, and now it's up

to the government to make use of it."

"I'm not quite ready for that yet," replied the young inventor. "I

have several improvements to make. But, when they are finished, I'll

let Uncle Sam know what I have. Then it's up to him."

"And you must be careful, Tom, that some of your rivals don't hear of