effect. The pamphlet containing these renderings had a considerable

vogue, and I mention them here simply to warn the reader against the

impression they may have created. They were no more like the Martians I

saw in action than a Dutch doll is like a human being. To my mind, the

pamphlet would have been much better without them.

At first, I say, the handling-machine did not impress me as a machine,

but as a crablike creature with a glittering integument, the

controlling Martian whose delicate tentacles actuated its movements

seeming to be simply the equivalent of the crab’s cerebral portion. But

then I perceived the resemblance of its grey-brown, shiny, leathery

integument to that of the other sprawling bodies beyond, and the true

nature of this dexterous workman dawned upon me. With that realisation

my interest shifted to those other creatures, the real Martians.

Already I had had a transient impression of these, and the first nausea

no longer obscured my observation. Moreover, I was concealed and

motionless, and under no urgency of action.

They were, I now saw, the most unearthly creatures it is possible to

conceive. They were huge round bodies—or, rather, heads—about four feet

in diameter, each body having in front of it a face. This face had no

nostrils—indeed, the Martians do not seem to have had any sense of

smell, but it had a pair of very large dark-coloured eyes, and just

beneath this a kind of fleshy beak. In the back of this head or body—I

scarcely know how to speak of it—was the single tight tympanic surface,

since known to be anatomically an ear, though it must have been almost

useless in our dense air. In a group round the mouth were sixteen

slender, almost whiplike tentacles, arranged in two bunches of eight

each. These bunches have since been named rather aptly, by that

distinguished anatomist, Professor Howes, the _hands_. Even as I saw

these Martians for the first time they seemed to be endeavouring to

raise themselves on these hands, but of course, with the increased

weight of terrestrial conditions, this was impossible. There is reason

to suppose that on Mars they may have progressed upon them with some

facility.

The internal anatomy, I may remark here, as dissection has since shown,

was almost equally simple. The greater part of the structure was the

brain, sending enormous nerves to the eyes, ear, and tactile tentacles.

Besides this were the bulky lungs, into which the mouth opened, and the

heart and its vessels. The pulmonary distress caused by the denser

atmosphere and greater gravitational attraction was only too evident in

the convulsive movements of the outer skin.

And this was the sum of the Martian organs. Strange as it may seem to a

human being, all the complex apparatus of digestion, which makes up the

bulk of our bodies, did not exist in the Martians. They were

heads—merely heads. Entrails they had none. They did not eat, much less

digest. Instead, they took the fresh, living blood of other creatures,

and _injected_ it into their own veins. I have myself seen this being

done, as I shall mention in its place. But, squeamish as I may seem, I

cannot bring myself to describe what I could not endure even to

continue watching. Let it suffice to say, blood obtained from a still

living animal, in most cases from a human being, was run directly by

means of a little pipette into the recipient canal. . . .

The bare idea of this is no doubt horribly repulsive to us, but at the

same time I think that we should remember how repulsive our carnivorous

habits would seem to an intelligent rabbit.

The physiological advantages of the practice of injection are

undeniable, if one thinks of the tremendous waste of human time and

energy occasioned by eating and the digestive process. Our bodies are

half made up of glands and tubes and organs, occupied in turning

heterogeneous food into blood. The digestive processes and their

reaction upon the nervous system sap our strength and colour our minds.

Men go happy or miserable as they have healthy or unhealthy livers, or

sound gastric glands. But the Martians were lifted above all these

organic fluctuations of mood and emotion.

Their undeniable preference for men as their source of nourishment is

partly explained by the nature of the remains of the victims they had

brought with them as provisions from Mars. These creatures, to judge

from the shrivelled remains that have fallen into human hands, were

bipeds with flimsy, silicious skeletons (almost like those of the

silicious sponges) and feeble musculature, standing about six feet high