me either with pleasure or pain. I am glad of one thing, that he comes

alone; because we shall see the less of him. Not that I am afraid of

_myself_, but I dread other people’s remarks.”

Elizabeth did not know what to make of it. Had she not seen him in

Derbyshire, she might have supposed him capable of coming there with no

other view than what was acknowledged; but she still thought him partial

to Jane, and she wavered as to the greater probability of his coming

there _with_ his friend’s permission, or being bold enough to come

without it.

“Yet it is hard,” she sometimes thought, “that this poor man cannot come

to a house, which he has legally hired, without raising all this

speculation! I _will_ leave him to himself.”

In spite of what her sister declared, and really believed to be her

feelings, in the expectation of his arrival, Elizabeth could easily

perceive that her spirits were affected by it. They were more disturbed,

more unequal, than she had often seen them.

The subject which had been so warmly canvassed between their parents,

about a twelvemonth ago, was now brought forward again.

“As soon as ever Mr. Bingley comes, my dear,” said Mrs. Bennet, “you

will wait on him, of course.”

“No, no. You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised, if I

went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters. But it ended in

nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool’s errand again.”

His wife represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention

would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his returning to

Netherfield.

“’Tis an _etiquette_ I despise,” said he. “If he wants our society, let

him seek it. He knows where we live. I will not spend _my_ hours in

running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back

again.”

“Well, all I know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do not wait

on him. But, however, that shan’t prevent my asking him to dine here, I

am determined. We must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings soon. That will

make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at table for

him.”

Consoled by this resolution, she was the better able to bear her

husband’s incivility; though it was very mortifying to know that her

neighbours might all see Mr. Bingley, in consequence of it, before

_they_ did. As the day of his arrival drew near,--

“I begin to be sorry that he comes at all,” said Jane to her sister. “It

would be nothing; I could see him with perfect indifference; but I can

hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually talked of. My mother means well;

but she does not know, no one can know, how much I suffer from what she

says. Happy shall I be when his stay at Netherfield is over!”

“I wish I could say anything to comfort you,” replied Elizabeth; “but it

is wholly out of my power. You must feel it; and the usual satisfaction

of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me, because you have

always so much.”

Mr. Bingley arrived. Mrs. Bennet, through the assistance of servants,

contrived to have the earliest tidings of it, that the period of anxiety

and fretfulness on her side be as long as it could. She counted the days

that must intervene before their invitation could be sent--hopeless of

seeing him before. But on the third morning after his arrival in

Hertfordshire, she saw him from her dressing-room window enter the

paddock, and ride towards the house.

Her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy. Jane resolutely

kept her place at the table; but Elizabeth, to satisfy her mother, went

to the window--she looked--she saw Mr. Darcy with him, and sat down

again by her sister.

“There is a gentleman with him, mamma,” said Kitty; “who can it be?”

“Some acquaintance or other, my dear, I suppose; I am sure I do not

know.”

“La!” replied Kitty, “it looks just like that man that used to be with

him before. Mr. what’s his name--that tall, proud man.”

“Good gracious! Mr. Darcy!--and so it does, I vow. Well, any friend of

Mr. Bingley’s will always be welcome here, to be sure; but else I must

say that I hate the very sight of him.”

Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern. She knew but little

of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness

which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time

after receiving his explanatory letter. Both sisters were uncomfortable