and having round, erect heads, and large eyes in flinty sockets. Two or

three of these seem to have been brought in each cylinder, and all were

killed before earth was reached. It was just as well for them, for the

mere attempt to stand upright upon our planet would have broken every

bone in their bodies.

And while I am engaged in this description, I may add in this place

certain further details which, although they were not all evident to us

at the time, will enable the reader who is unacquainted with them to

form a clearer picture of these offensive creatures.

In three other points their physiology differed strangely from ours.

Their organisms did not sleep, any more than the heart of man sleeps.

Since they had no extensive muscular mechanism to recuperate, that

periodical extinction was unknown to them. They had little or no sense

of fatigue, it would seem. On earth they could never have moved without

effort, yet even to the last they kept in action. In twenty-four hours

they did twenty-four hours of work, as even on earth is perhaps the

case with the ants.

In the next place, wonderful as it seems in a sexual world, the

Martians were absolutely without sex, and therefore without any of the

tumultuous emotions that arise from that difference among men. A young

Martian, there can now be no dispute, was really born upon earth during

the war, and it was found attached to its parent, partially _budded_

off, just as young lilybulbs bud off, or like the young animals in the

fresh-water polyp.

In man, in all the higher terrestrial animals, such a method of

increase has disappeared; but even on this earth it was certainly the

primitive method. Among the lower animals, up even to those first

cousins of the vertebrated animals, the Tunicates, the two processes

occur side by side, but finally the sexual method superseded its

competitor altogether. On Mars, however, just the reverse has

apparently been the case.

It is worthy of remark that a certain speculative writer of

quasi-scientific repute, writing long before the Martian invasion, did

forecast for man a final structure not unlike the actual Martian

condition. His prophecy, I remember, appeared in November or December,

1893, in a long-defunct publication, the _Pall Mall Budget_, and I

recall a caricature of it in a pre-Martian periodical called _Punch_.

He pointed out—writing in a foolish, facetious tone—that the perfection

of mechanical appliances must ultimately supersede limbs; the

perfection of chemical devices, digestion; that such organs as hair,

external nose, teeth, ears, and chin were no longer essential parts of

the human being, and that the tendency of natural selection would lie

in the direction of their steady diminution through the coming ages.

The brain alone remained a cardinal necessity. Only one other part of

the body had a strong case for survival, and that was the hand,

“teacher and agent of the brain.” While the rest of the body dwindled,

the hands would grow larger.

There is many a true word written in jest, and here in the Martians we

have beyond dispute the actual accomplishment of such a suppression of

the animal side of the organism by the intelligence. To me it is quite

credible that the Martians may be descended from beings not unlike

ourselves, by a gradual development of brain and hands (the latter

giving rise to the two bunches of delicate tentacles at last) at the

expense of the rest of the body. Without the body the brain would, of

course, become a mere selfish intelligence, without any of the

emotional substratum of the human being.

The last salient point in which the systems of these creatures differed

from ours was in what one might have thought a very trivial particular.

Micro-organisms, which cause so much disease and pain on earth, have

either never appeared upon Mars or Martian sanitary science eliminated

them ages ago. A hundred diseases, all the fevers and contagions of

human life, consumption, cancers, tumours and such morbidities, never

enter the scheme of their life. And speaking of the differences between

the life on Mars and terrestrial life, I may allude here to the curious

suggestions of the red weed.

Apparently the vegetable kingdom in Mars, instead of having green for a

dominant colour, is of a vivid blood-red tint. At any rate, the seeds

which the Martians (intentionally or accidentally) brought with them

gave rise in all cases to red-coloured growths. Only that known

popularly as the red weed, however, gained any footing in competition

with terrestrial forms. The red creeper was quite a transitory growth,

and few people have seen it growing. For a time, however, the red weed

grew with astonishing vigour and luxuriance. It spread up the sides of

the pit by the third or fourth day of our imprisonment, and its

cactus-like branches formed a carmine fringe to the edges of our

triangular window. And afterwards I found it broadcast throughout the

country, and especially wherever there was a stream of water.

The Martians had what appears to have been an auditory organ, a single

round drum at the back of the head-body, and eyes with a visual range