isn't in any danger. And it may turn out that he has met an old friend,

and has been talking with him all this while, forgetting all about the

passage of time."

They were now driving along the highway that led from the little suburb

where Mr. Nestor lived, to the main part of Shopton, just beyond which

was Tom's home. This section was country-like, with very few houses and

those placed at rather infrequent intervals. The road was a good one,

though not the main-traveled one, and Mr. Nestor, as was known,

frequently used it when he rode his bicycle, an exercise of which he

was very fond.

As Tom and Mr. Damon drove along, they scanned, as best they could in

the light from the young moon and the powerful lamps on the runabout,

every part of the highway. They were looking for some dark blot which

might indicate where a man had fallen from his wheel and was lying in

some huddled heap on the road. But they saw nothing like this, much to

their relief.

"Do you know, Tom," said Mr. Damon, when they were nearing the town,

and their search, thus far, had been in vain, "I think we're going at

this the wrong way."

"Why, so?"

"Because Mr. Nestor may have fallen, and been hurt, and have been

carried into any one of a dozen houses along the road. In that case we

wouldn't see him. We've passed over the most lonely part of the journey

and haven't seen him. If the accident occurred near the houses his

cries would have brought some one out to help him. He is well known

around here, and, even if he were unconscious and couldn't tell who he

was, he could be identified by papers in his pockets. Then his family

would be notified by telephone."

"Perhaps you are right, Mr. Damon. We may be wasting time this way.

What do you suggest?" asked Tom.

"That we don't delay any longer, but call up the hospitals at once. If

he isn't in either of those he must be in some house, and in such

condition that his identity cannot be established. In that event it is

a case for the police. We haven't found him, and I think we had better

give the alarm."

Tom Swift thought it over for a moment. Then he came to a sudden

decision.

"You're right!" he told Mr. Damon. "We mustn't waste any more time. He

isn't along the road he ought to have traveled in coming from my house

to his home--that's sure. But before I call up the hospitals I want to

try out one more idea."

"What's that, Tom?"

"I want to go to the place where we heard that cry for help."

"Do you think that could have been Mr. Nestor?"

"It may have been. We'll go and take another look around there. Some

man was evidently hurt there, and was taken away. We may get a clew.

The lights on the runabout will give us a better chance to look around

than we had by the little pocket lamp. We'll try there, and, if we

don't find anything, then I'll call up the hospitals."

CHAPTER XVI

THE LONG NIGHT

With the speedy runabout it did not take Tom Swift and Mr. Damon long

to reach the place where the Air Scout had been grounded a few hours

before, and where they had heard the cry for help. All was as dark and

as silent as when they had been there before.

But, as Tom had said, the lights from his electric runabout would give

a brilliant illumination, and these he now directed toward the clump of

trees whence the cry for help had seemed to come.

"Doesn't appear to have been visited by any one since we were here,"

remarked Tom, as he observed the marks of the new automobile tire in

the dust. "Now we'll look about more carefully."

This they did, but they were about to give up in despair and start for

the nearest telephone to call up the hospitals, when Mr. Damon gave an

exclamation.

"What is it?" asked Tom.

"Something bright and shining!" said his companion. "I saw it gleam in

the light of the lamps. You nearly put your foot on it, Tom. Just step