“And your baggage?”

“I do not care about it. I can send for it some other time.”

The Count stood up, and said, with a sweet courtesy which made me rub my

eyes, it seemed so real:--

“You English have a saying which is close to my heart, for its spirit is

that which rules our _boyars_: ‘Welcome the coming; speed the parting

guest.’ Come with me, my dear young friend. Not an hour shall you wait

in my house against your will, though sad am I at your going, and that

you so suddenly desire it. Come!” With a stately gravity, he, with the

lamp, preceded me down the stairs and along the hall. Suddenly he

stopped.

“Hark!”

Close at hand came the howling of many wolves. It was almost as if the

sound sprang up at the rising of his hand, just as the music of a great

orchestra seems to leap under the bâton of the conductor. After a pause

of a moment, he proceeded, in his stately way, to the door, drew back

the ponderous bolts, unhooked the heavy chains, and began to draw it

open.

To my intense astonishment I saw that it was unlocked. Suspiciously, I

looked all round, but could see no key of any kind.

As the door began to open, the howling of the wolves without grew louder

and angrier; their red jaws, with champing teeth, and their blunt-clawed

feet as they leaped, came in through the opening door. I knew then that

to struggle at the moment against the Count was useless. With such

allies as these at his command, I could do nothing. But still the door

continued slowly to open, and only the Count’s body stood in the gap.

Suddenly it struck me that this might be the moment and means of my

doom; I was to be given to the wolves, and at my own instigation. There

was a diabolical wickedness in the idea great enough for the Count, and

as a last chance I cried out:--

“Shut the door; I shall wait till morning!” and covered my face with my

hands to hide my tears of bitter disappointment. With one sweep of his

powerful arm, the Count threw the door shut, and the great bolts clanged

and echoed through the hall as they shot back into their places.

In silence we returned to the library, and after a minute or two I went

to my own room. The last I saw of Count Dracula was his kissing his hand

to me; with a red light of triumph in his eyes, and with a smile that

Judas in hell might be proud of.

When I was in my room and about to lie down, I thought I heard a

whispering at my door. I went to it softly and listened. Unless my ears

deceived me, I heard the voice of the Count:--

“Back, back, to your own place! Your time is not yet come. Wait! Have

patience! To-night is mine. To-morrow night is yours!” There was a low,

sweet ripple of laughter, and in a rage I threw open the door, and saw

without the three terrible women licking their lips. As I appeared they

all joined in a horrible laugh, and ran away.

I came back to my room and threw myself on my knees. It is then so near

the end? To-morrow! to-morrow! Lord, help me, and those to whom I am

dear!

 * * * * *

_30 June, morning._--These may be the last words I ever write in this

diary. I slept till just before the dawn, and when I woke threw myself

on my knees, for I determined that if Death came he should find me

ready.

At last I felt that subtle change in the air, and knew that the morning

had come. Then came the welcome cock-crow, and I felt that I was safe.

With a glad heart, I opened my door and ran down to the hall. I had seen

that the door was unlocked, and now escape was before me. With hands

that trembled with eagerness, I unhooked the chains and drew back the

massive bolts.

But the door would not move. Despair seized me. I pulled, and pulled, at

the door, and shook it till, massive as it was, it rattled in its

casement. I could see the bolt shot. It had been locked after I left the

Count.

Then a wild desire took me to obtain that key at any risk, and I

determined then and there to scale the wall again and gain the Count’s