seem to have harmed her; on the contrary, it has benefited her, for she

looks better this morning than she has done for weeks. I was sorry to

notice that my clumsiness with the safety-pin hurt her. Indeed, it might

have been serious, for the skin of her throat was pierced. I must have

pinched up a piece of loose skin and have transfixed it, for there are

two little red points like pin-pricks, and on the band of her nightdress

was a drop of blood. When I apologised and was concerned about it, she

laughed and petted me, and said she did not even feel it. Fortunately it

cannot leave a scar, as it is so tiny.

 * * * * *

_Same day, night._--We passed a happy day. The air was clear, and the

sun bright, and there was a cool breeze. We took our lunch to Mulgrave

Woods, Mrs. Westenra driving by the road and Lucy and I walking by the

cliff-path and joining her at the gate. I felt a little sad myself, for

I could not but feel how _absolutely_ happy it would have been had

Jonathan been with me. But there! I must only be patient. In the evening

we strolled in the Casino Terrace, and heard some good music by Spohr

and Mackenzie, and went to bed early. Lucy seems more restful than she

has been for some time, and fell asleep at once. I shall lock the door

and secure the key the same as before, though I do not expect any

trouble to-night.

 * * * * *

_12 August._--My expectations were wrong, for twice during the night I

was wakened by Lucy trying to get out. She seemed, even in her sleep, to

be a little impatient at finding the door shut, and went back to bed

under a sort of protest. I woke with the dawn, and heard the birds

chirping outside of the window. Lucy woke, too, and, I was glad to see,

was even better than on the previous morning. All her old gaiety of

manner seemed to have come back, and she came and snuggled in beside me

and told me all about Arthur. I told her how anxious I was about

Jonathan, and then she tried to comfort me. Well, she succeeded

somewhat, for, though sympathy can’t alter facts, it can help to make

them more bearable.

 * * * * *

_13 August._--Another quiet day, and to bed with the key on my wrist as

before. Again I awoke in the night, and found Lucy sitting up in bed,

still asleep, pointing to the window. I got up quietly, and pulling

aside the blind, looked out. It was brilliant moonlight, and the soft

effect of the light over the sea and sky--merged together in one great,

silent mystery--was beautiful beyond words. Between me and the moonlight

flitted a great bat, coming and going in great whirling circles. Once or

twice it came quite close, but was, I suppose, frightened at seeing me,

and flitted away across the harbour towards the abbey. When I came back

from the window Lucy had lain down again, and was sleeping peacefully.

She did not stir again all night.

 * * * * *

_14 August._--On the East Cliff, reading and writing all day. Lucy seems

to have become as much in love with the spot as I am, and it is hard to

get her away from it when it is time to come home for lunch or tea or

dinner. This afternoon she made a funny remark. We were coming home for

dinner, and had come to the top of the steps up from the West Pier and

stopped to look at the view, as we generally do. The setting sun, low

down in the sky, was just dropping behind Kettleness; the red light was

thrown over on the East Cliff and the old abbey, and seemed to bathe

everything in a beautiful rosy glow. We were silent for a while, and

suddenly Lucy murmured as if to herself:--

“His red eyes again! They are just the same.” It was such an odd

expression, coming _apropos_ of nothing, that it quite startled me. I

slewed round a little, so as to see Lucy well without seeming to stare

at her, and saw that she was in a half-dreamy state, with an odd look on

her face that I could not quite make out; so I said nothing, but

followed her eyes. She appeared to be looking over at our own seat,

whereon was a dark figure seated alone. I was a little startled myself,

for it seemed for an instant as if the stranger had great eyes like