Helsing, too, has been quite “blowing my trumpet,” as Mr. Morris

expressed it. Poor fellows, neither of them is aware that I know all

about the proposals they made to Lucy. They did not quite know what to

say or do, as they were ignorant of the amount of my knowledge; so they

had to keep on neutral subjects. However, I thought the matter over, and

came to the conclusion that the best thing I could do would be to post

them in affairs right up to date. I knew from Dr. Seward’s diary that

they had been at Lucy’s death--her real death--and that I need not fear

to betray any secret before the time. So I told them, as well as I

could, that I had read all the papers and diaries, and that my husband

and I, having typewritten them, had just finished putting them in order.

I gave them each a copy to read in the library. When Lord Godalming got

his and turned it over--it does make a pretty good pile--he said:--

“Did you write all this, Mrs. Harker?”

I nodded, and he went on:--

“I don’t quite see the drift of it; but you people are all so good and

kind, and have been working so earnestly and so energetically, that all

I can do is to accept your ideas blindfold and try to help you. I have

had one lesson already in accepting facts that should make a man humble

to the last hour of his life. Besides, I know you loved my poor Lucy--”

Here he turned away and covered his face with his hands. I could hear

the tears in his voice. Mr. Morris, with instinctive delicacy, just laid

a hand for a moment on his shoulder, and then walked quietly out of the

room. I suppose there is something in woman’s nature that makes a man

free to break down before her and express his feelings on the tender or

emotional side without feeling it derogatory to his manhood; for when

Lord Godalming found himself alone with me he sat down on the sofa and

gave way utterly and openly. I sat down beside him and took his hand. I

hope he didn’t think it forward of me, and that if he ever thinks of it

afterwards he never will have such a thought. There I wrong him; I

_know_ he never will--he is too true a gentleman. I said to him, for I

could see that his heart was breaking:--

“I loved dear Lucy, and I know what she was to you, and what you were to

her. She and I were like sisters; and now she is gone, will you not let

me be like a sister to you in your trouble? I know what sorrows you have

had, though I cannot measure the depth of them. If sympathy and pity can

help in your affliction, won’t you let me be of some little service--for

Lucy’s sake?”

In an instant the poor dear fellow was overwhelmed with grief. It seemed

to me that all that he had of late been suffering in silence found a

vent at once. He grew quite hysterical, and raising his open hands, beat

his palms together in a perfect agony of grief. He stood up and then sat

down again, and the tears rained down his cheeks. I felt an infinite

pity for him, and opened my arms unthinkingly. With a sob he laid his

head on my shoulder and cried like a wearied child, whilst he shook with

emotion.

We women have something of the mother in us that makes us rise above

smaller matters when the mother-spirit is invoked; I felt this big

sorrowing man’s head resting on me, as though it were that of the baby

that some day may lie on my bosom, and I stroked his hair as though he

were my own child. I never thought at the time how strange it all was.

After a little bit his sobs ceased, and he raised himself with an

apology, though he made no disguise of his emotion. He told me that for

days and nights past--weary days and sleepless nights--he had been

unable to speak with any one, as a man must speak in his time of

sorrow. There was no woman whose sympathy could be given to him, or with

whom, owing to the terrible circumstance with which his sorrow was

surrounded, he could speak freely. “I know now how I suffered,” he said,

as he dried his eyes, “but I do not know even yet--and none other can

ever know--how much your sweet sympathy has been to me to-day. I shall

know better in time; and believe me that, though I am not ungrateful

now, my gratitude will grow with my understanding. You will let me be

like a brother, will you not, for all our lives--for dear Lucy’s sake?”

“For dear Lucy’s sake,” I said as we clasped hands. “Ay, and for your

own sake,” he added, “for if a man’s esteem and gratitude are ever worth

the winning, you have won mine to-day. If ever the future should bring

to you a time when you need a man’s help, believe me, you will not call