"Well, I don't know who Silent Sam is," said Mr. Nestor faintly. "But

I'm sure I'm much obliged to him and your other friends. It has been

very hard. Tell me, are my wife and Mary all right?"

"In good health, yes, but, of course, worrying," said Tom. "We saw them

in the garden a little while ago. Now don't talk until I set you free."

And as Tom cut the ropes from Mr. Nestor, Mr. Damon used them to bind

the two conspirators, while Mr. Terrill stood guard over them. And when

they were safely bound, and Mr. Nestor had somewhat recovered from the

shock, Tom had a chance to examine the prisoners.

"What does it all mean? Who are you fellows, anyhow, and what's your

game?" he demanded.

"Guess it--since you're so smart!" snapped one.

And no sooner had he opened his mouth and Tom had a glance of something

gleaming brightly yellow, than the young inventor cried:

"The gold tooth! So it's you again, is it, you spy?"

The man shrugged his shoulders with an assumption of indifference. And,

as Tom took a closer look, he became aware that the man was surely none

other than Lydane, the spy he had chased into the mud puddle some weeks

before. His companion was a stranger to Tom.

"What does it all mean, Mr. Nestor?" asked Tom. "Have these men held

you a prisoner ever since you called for help on the moor that night?"

"Yes, Tom, they have. And I did call for help after they attacked me as

I was riding my wheel, but I didn't know any one heard me. I began to

be afraid no one would ever help me."

"We've been trying to, a long time," said Mr. Damon, "but we couldn't

find you. Where did they keep you?"

"Here, part of the time," was Mr. Nestor's answer. "And in other lonely

houses. They bound and gagged me when they took me from place to place."

"But what was their object?" asked Tom, concluding it was useless to

question the two captives. "Why did they make you a prisoner, Mr.

Nestor?"

"Because they took me for you, Tom."

"For me?"

"Yes. The night I called at your house, and found you were not at home,

I put back in my pocket a bundle of papers I had brought over to show

you. They were plans of a little kitchen appliance a friend of mine had

invented, and I wanted to ask your opinion of it."

"These scoundrels must have followed me, or have seen the bundle of

papers, and, mistaking me for you, they followed, attacked me in a

lonely spot and, bundling me and my wrecked wheel into an auto, carried

me off. They first demanded that I gave up the 'plans,' and when I

wouldn't they choked off my cries for help and knocked me into

unconsciousness. Then they brought me here, and kept me here for

several days.

"They soon learned that the plans I had weren't those they wanted,

though what they were then after I couldn't imagine. Only, from what I

later overheard, I knew they mistook me for you and that they were

bitterly disappointed in not getting plans of some new airship you were

working on. They have kept me a prisoner ever since, and though they

offered to let me go if I would keep silent, I refused. I did not

think, to secure my own comfort, I should let such men go unpunished if

I could bring about their arrest."

"I should say not!" cried Tom.

"Did they treat you brutally, Mr. Nestor?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Not after they found out who I was, by looking through my wallet. Of

course they didn't behave very decently, but they weren't actually

cruel, except that they bound and gagged me. Oh, but I'm glad you came,

Tom! How did it happen?"

Then they told Mr. Nestor their story, and how the test of the new Air

Scout had led to his rescue.

"But where are the Secret Service men?" asked Mr. Terrill, when it

became evident that none them was on guard at the cabin.

Later it developed that, by following a false clew, the Secret Service