transgressed, without fear or scruple, the rules of behavior that were

binding on all others; smoking tobacco under the beadle’s very nose,

although each whiff would have cost a townsman a shilling; and

quaffing, at their pleasure, draughts of wine or aqua-vitæ from

pocket-flasks, which they freely tendered to the gaping crowd around

them. It remarkably characterized the incomplete morality of the age,

rigid as we call it, that a license was allowed the seafaring class,

not merely for their freaks on shore, but for far more desperate deeds

on their proper element. The sailor of that day would go near to be

arraigned as a pirate in our own. There could be little doubt, for

instance, that this very ship’s crew, though no unfavorable specimens

of the nautical brotherhood, had been guilty, as we should phrase it,

of depredations on the Spanish commerce, such as would have perilled

all their necks in a modern court of justice.

But the sea, in those old times, heaved, swelled, and foamed, very

much at its own will, or subject only to the tempestuous wind, with

hardly any attempts at regulation by human law. The buccaneer on the

wave might relinquish his calling, and become at once, if he chose, a

man of probity and piety on land; nor, even in the full career of his

reckless life, was he regarded as a personage with whom it was

disreputable to traffic, or casually associate. Thus, the Puritan

elders, in their black cloaks, starched bands, and steeple-crowned

hats, smiled not unbenignantly at the clamor and rude deportment of

these jolly seafaring men; and it excited neither surprise nor

animadversion, when so reputable a citizen as old Roger Chillingworth,

the physician, was seen to enter the market-place, in close and

familiar talk with the commander of the questionable vessel.

The latter was by far the most showy and gallant figure, so far as

apparel went, anywhere to be seen among the multitude. He wore a

profusion of ribbons on his garment, and gold-lace on his hat, which

was also encircled by a gold chain, and surmounted with a feather.

There was a sword at his side, and a sword-cut on his forehead, which,

by the arrangement of his hair, he seemed anxious rather to display

than hide. A landsman could hardly have worn this garb and shown this

face, and worn and shown them both with such a galliard air, without

undergoing stern question before a magistrate, and probably incurring

fine or imprisonment, or perhaps an exhibition in the stocks. As

regarded the shipmaster, however, all was looked upon as pertaining to

the character, as to a fish his glistening scales.

After parting from the physician, the commander of the Bristol ship

strolled idly through the market-place; until, happening to approach

the spot where Hester Prynne was standing, he appeared to recognize,

and did not hesitate to address her. As was usually the case wherever

Hester stood, a small vacant area—a sort of magic circle—had formed

itself about her, into which, though the people were elbowing one

another at a little distance, none ventured, or felt disposed to

intrude. It was a forcible type of the moral solitude in which the

scarlet letter enveloped its fated wearer; partly by her own reserve,

and partly by the instinctive, though no longer so unkindly,

withdrawal of her fellow-creatures. Now, if never before, it answered

a good purpose, by enabling Hester and the seaman to speak together

without risk of being overheard; and so changed was Hester Prynne’s

repute before the public, that the matron in town most eminent for

rigid morality could not have held such intercourse with less result

of scandal than herself.

“So, mistress,” said the mariner, “I must bid the steward make ready

one more berth than you bargained for! No fear of scurvy or

ship-fever, this voyage! What with the ship’s surgeon and this other

doctor, our only danger will be from drug or pill; more by token, as

there is a lot of apothecary’s stuff aboard, which I traded for with a

Spanish vessel.”

“What mean you?” inquired Hester, startled more than she permitted to

appear. “Have you another passenger?”

“Why, know you not,” cried the shipmaster, “that this physician

here—Chillingworth, he calls himself—is minded to try my cabin-fare

with you? Ay, ay, you must have known it; for he tells me he is of

your party, and a close friend to the gentleman you spoke of,—he that

is in peril from these sour old Puritan rulers!”

[Illustration: Chillingworth,—“Smile with a sinister meaning”]

“They know each other well, indeed,” replied Hester, with a mien of

calmness, though in the utmost consternation. “They have long dwelt

together.”

Nothing further passed between the mariner and Hester Prynne. But, at

that instant, she beheld old Roger Chillingworth himself, standing in

the remotest corner of the market-place, and smiling on her; a smile

which—across the wide and bustling square, and through all the talk

and laughter, and various thoughts, moods, and interests of the

crowd—conveyed secret and fearful meaning.

 [Illustration]

 XXII.

 THE PROCESSION.

Before Hester Prynne could call together her thoughts, and consider