market-place. Measured by the prisoner’s experience, however, it might

be reckoned a journey of some length; for, haughty as her demeanor

was, she perchance underwent an agony from every footstep of those

that thronged to see her, as if her heart had been flung into the

street for them all to spurn and trample upon. In our nature, however,

there is a provision, alike marvellous and merciful, that the sufferer

should never know the intensity of what he endures by its present

torture, but chiefly by the pang that rankles after it. With almost a

serene deportment, therefore, Hester Prynne passed through this

portion of her ordeal, and came to a sort of scaffold, at the western

extremity of the market-place. It stood nearly beneath the eaves of

Boston’s earliest church, and appeared to be a fixture there.

In fact, this scaffold constituted a portion of a penal machine, which

now, for two or three generations past, has been merely historical and

traditionary among us, but was held, in the old time, to be as

effectual an agent, in the promotion of good citizenship, as ever was

the guillotine among the terrorists of France. It was, in short, the

platform of the pillory; and above it rose the framework of that

instrument of discipline, so fashioned as to confine the human head in

its tight grasp, and thus hold it up to the public gaze. The very

ideal of ignominy was embodied and made manifest in this contrivance

of wood and iron. There can be no outrage, methinks, against our

common nature,—whatever be the delinquencies of the individual,—no

outrage more flagrant than to forbid the culprit to hide his face for

shame; as it was the essence of this punishment to do. In Hester

Prynne’s instance, however, as not unfrequently in other cases, her

sentence bore, that she should stand a certain time upon the platform,

but without undergoing that gripe about the neck and confinement of

the head, the proneness to which was the most devilish characteristic

of this ugly engine. Knowing well her part, she ascended a flight of

wooden steps, and was thus displayed to the surrounding multitude, at

about the height of a man’s shoulders above the street.

Had there been a Papist among the crowd of Puritans, he might have

seen in this beautiful woman, so picturesque in her attire and mien,

and with the infant at her bosom, an object to remind him of the image

of Divine Maternity, which so many illustrious painters have vied with

one another to represent; something which should remind him, indeed,

but only by contrast, of that sacred image of sinless motherhood,

whose infant was to redeem the world. Here, there was the taint of

deepest sin in the most sacred quality of human life, working such

effect, that the world was only the darker for this woman’s beauty,

and the more lost for the infant that she had borne.

The scene was not without a mixture of awe, such as must always invest

the spectacle of guilt and shame in a fellow-creature, before society

shall have grown corrupt enough to smile, instead of shuddering, at

it. The witnesses of Hester Prynne’s disgrace had not yet passed

beyond their simplicity. They were stern enough to look upon her

death, had that been the sentence, without a murmur at its severity,

but had none of the heartlessness of another social state, which would

find only a theme for jest in an exhibition like the present. Even had

there been a disposition to turn the matter into ridicule, it must

have been repressed and overpowered by the solemn presence of men no

less dignified than the Governor, and several of his counsellors, a

judge, a general, and the ministers of the town; all of whom sat or

stood in a balcony of the meeting-house, looking down upon the

platform. When such personages could constitute a part of the

spectacle, without risking the majesty or reverence of rank and

office, it was safely to be inferred that the infliction of a legal

sentence would have an earnest and effectual meaning. Accordingly, the

crowd was sombre and grave. The unhappy culprit sustained herself as

best a woman might, under the heavy weight of a thousand unrelenting

eyes, all fastened upon her, and concentrated at her bosom. It was

almost intolerable to be borne. Of an impulsive and passionate nature,

she had fortified herself to encounter the stings and venomous stabs

of public contumely, wreaking itself in every variety of insult; but

there was a quality so much more terrible in the solemn mood of the

popular mind, that she longed rather to behold all those rigid

countenances contorted with scornful merriment, and herself the

object. Had a roar of laughter burst from the multitude,—each man,

each woman, each little shrill-voiced child, contributing their

individual parts,—Hester Prynne might have repaid them all with a

bitter and disdainful smile. But, under the leaden infliction which it

was her doom to endure, she felt, at moments, as if she must needs

shriek out with the full power of her lungs, and cast herself from the

scaffold down upon the ground, or else go mad at once.

Yet there were intervals when the whole scene, in which she was the

most conspicuous object, seemed to vanish from her eyes, or, at least,

glimmered indistinctly before them, like a mass of imperfectly shaped