“That is good logic,” he said, “so far as it goes. But how do you--how

can you--account for it not being there?”

“Perhaps a body-snatcher,” I suggested. “Some of the undertaker’s people

may have stolen it.” I felt that I was speaking folly, and yet it was

the only real cause which I could suggest. The Professor sighed. “Ah

well!” he said, “we must have more proof. Come with me.”

He put on the coffin-lid again, gathered up all his things and placed

them in the bag, blew out the light, and placed the candle also in the

bag. We opened the door, and went out. Behind us he closed the door and

locked it. He handed me the key, saying: “Will you keep it? You had

better be assured.” I laughed--it was not a very cheerful laugh, I am

bound to say--as I motioned him to keep it. “A key is nothing,” I said;

“there may be duplicates; and anyhow it is not difficult to pick a lock

of that kind.” He said nothing, but put the key in his pocket. Then he

told me to watch at one side of the churchyard whilst he would watch at

the other. I took up my place behind a yew-tree, and I saw his dark

figure move until the intervening headstones and trees hid it from my

sight.

It was a lonely vigil. Just after I had taken my place I heard a distant

clock strike twelve, and in time came one and two. I was chilled and

unnerved, and angry with the Professor for taking me on such an errand

and with myself for coming. I was too cold and too sleepy to be keenly

observant, and not sleepy enough to betray my trust so altogether I had

a dreary, miserable time.

Suddenly, as I turned round, I thought I saw something like a white

streak, moving between two dark yew-trees at the side of the churchyard

farthest from the tomb; at the same time a dark mass moved from the

Professor’s side of the ground, and hurriedly went towards it. Then I

too moved; but I had to go round headstones and railed-off tombs, and I

stumbled over graves. The sky was overcast, and somewhere far off an

early cock crew. A little way off, beyond a line of scattered

juniper-trees, which marked the pathway to the church, a white, dim

figure flitted in the direction of the tomb. The tomb itself was hidden

by trees, and I could not see where the figure disappeared. I heard the

rustle of actual movement where I had first seen the white figure, and

coming over, found the Professor holding in his arms a tiny child. When

he saw me he held it out to me, and said:--

“Are you satisfied now?”

“No,” I said, in a way that I felt was aggressive.

“Do you not see the child?”

“Yes, it is a child, but who brought it here? And is it wounded?” I

asked.

“We shall see,” said the Professor, and with one impulse we took our way

out of the churchyard, he carrying the sleeping child.

When we had got some little distance away, we went into a clump of

trees, and struck a match, and looked at the child’s throat. It was

without a scratch or scar of any kind.

“Was I right?” I asked triumphantly.

“We were just in time,” said the Professor thankfully.

We had now to decide what we were to do with the child, and so consulted

about it. If we were to take it to a police-station we should have to

give some account of our movements during the night; at least, we should

have had to make some statement as to how we had come to find the child.

So finally we decided that we would take it to the Heath, and when we

heard a policeman coming, would leave it where he could not fail to find

it; we would then seek our way home as quickly as we could. All fell out

well. At the edge of Hampstead Heath we heard a policeman’s heavy

tramp, and laying the child on the pathway, we waited and watched until

he saw it as he flashed his lantern to and fro. We heard his exclamation

of astonishment, and then we went away silently. By good chance we got a

cab near the “Spaniards,” and drove to town.

I cannot sleep, so I make this entry. But I must try to get a few hours’

sleep, as Van Helsing is to call for me at noon. He insists that I shall

go with him on another expedition.

 * * * * *

_27 September._--It was two o’clock before we found a suitable

opportunity for our attempt. The funeral held at noon was all completed,

and the last stragglers of the mourners had taken themselves lazily