 Law. This same should be the voice of Frier Iohn.

Welcome from Mantua, what sayes Romeo?

Or if his mind be writ, giue me his Letter

 Iohn. Going to find a bare-foote Brother out,

One of our order to associate me,

Here in this Citie visiting the sick,

And finding him, the Searchers of the Towne

Suspecting that we both were in a house

Where the infectious pestilence did raigne,

Seal'd vp the doores, and would not let vs forth,

So that my speed to Mantua there was staid

 Law. Who bare my Letter then to Romeo?

 Iohn. I could not send it, here it is againe,

Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,

So fearefull were they of infection

 Law. Vnhappie Fortune: by my Brotherhood

The Letter was not nice; but full of charge,

Of deare import; and the neglecting it

May do much danger: Frier Iohn go hence,

Get me an Iron Crow, and bring it straight

Vnto my Cell

 Iohn. Brother Ile go and bring it thee.

Enter.

 Law. Now must I to the Monument alone,

Within this three houres will faire Iuliet wake,

Shee will beshrew me much that Romeo

Hath had no notice of these accidents:

But I will write againe to Mantua,

And keepe her at my Cell till Romeo come,

Poore liuing Coarse, clos'd in a dead mans Tombe,

Enter.

Enter Paris and his Page.

 Par. Giue me thy Torch Boy, hence and stand aloft,

Yet put it out, for I would not be seene:

Vnder yond young Trees lay thee all along,

Holding thy eare close to the hollow ground,

So shall no foot vpon the Churchyard tread,

Being loose, vnfirme with digging vp of Graues,

But thou shalt heare it: whistle then to me,

As signall that thou hearest some thing approach,

Giue me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go

 Page. I am almost afraid to stand alone

Here in the Churchyard, yet I will aduenture

 Pa. Sweet Flower with flowers thy Bridall bed I strew:

O woe, thy Canopie is dust and stones,

Which with sweet water nightly I will dewe,

Or wanting that, with teares destil'd by mones;

The obsequies that I for thee will keepe,

Nightly shall be, to strew thy graue, and weepe.

Whistle Boy.

The Boy giues warning, something doth approach,

What cursed foot wanders this wayes to night,

To crosse my obsequies, and true loues right?

What with a Torch? Muffle me night a while.

Enter Romeo, and Peter.

 Rom. Giue me that Mattocke, & the wrenching Iron,

Hold take this Letter, early in the morning

See thou deliuer it to my Lord and Father,

Giue me the light; vpon thy life I charge thee,

What ere thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloofe,

And do not interrupt me in my course.

Why I descend into this bed of death,

Is partly to behold my Ladies face:

But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger,

A precious Ring, a Ring that I must vse,

In deare employment, therefore hence be gone:

But if thou iealous dost returne to prie

In what I further shall intend to do,

By heauen I will teare thee ioynt by ioynt,

And strew this hungry Churchyard with thy limbs:

The time, and my intents are sauage wilde:

More fierce and more inexorable farre,

Them emptie Tygers, or the roaring Sea

 Pet. I will be gone sir, and not trouble you

 Ro. So shalt thou shew me friendship: take thou that,

Liue and be prosperous, and farewell good fellow

 Pet. For all this same, Ile hide me here about,

His lookes I feare, and his intents I doubt

 Rom. Thou detestable mawe, thou wombe of death,

Gorg'd with the dearest morsell of the earth:

Thus I enforce thy rotten Iawes to open,

And in despight, Ile cram thee with more food