But Eradicate did not finish what he intended to say. Once free from

the powerful current, the giant looked at his numb hands, and then,

seeming to think that Eradicate was the cause of it all, he sprang at

the colored man with a yell. But Eradicate did not stay to see what

would happen. With a howl of terror, he raced out of the door, and, old

and rheumatic as he was, he managed to gain the stable of his mule,

Boomerang, over which he had his humble but comfortable quarters.

"Well, I guess he's safe for a while!" laughed Tom, as he saw the giant

turn away, shaking his fist at the closed door, for Koku, big as he

was, stood in mortal terror of the mule's heels.

Tom locked the door of the electrical shop and went back to his

interrupted problem. From Jackson he learned that Koku and Eradicate

had merely happened to stroll into the forbidden place, which had been

left open by accident. There, it appeared, Koku had handled some of the

machinery, ending by switching on the current of the machine the

handles of which he later unsuspectingly picked up. Then he received a

shock he long remembered, and for many days he believed Eradicate had

been responsible for it, and there was more than the usual hostile

feeling between the two. But Eradicate was innocent of that trick, at

all events.

"Though," said Tom, telling his father about it later, "Rad would have

turned on the current if he had known he could make trouble for Koku by

it. I never saw their like for having disagreements!"

"Yes, but they are both devoted to you, Tom," said the aged inventor.

"But what is this you hinted at--a silent motor you called it, I

believe? Are you really serious in trying to invent one?"

"Yes, Dad, I am. I think there's a big field for an aeroplane that

could travel along over the enemy's lines--particularly at night--and

not be heard from below. Think of the scout work that could be done.

"Well, yes, it could be done if you could get a silent motor, or

propellers that made no noise, Tom. But I don't believe it can be done."

"Well, maybe not, Dad. But I'm going to try!" and Tom, after a further

talk with his father, began work in earnest on the big problem. That it

was a big one Tom was not disposed to deny, and that it would be a

valuable invention even his somewhat skeptical father admitted.

"How are you going to start, Tom?" asked Mr. Swift, several days after

the big idea had come to the young man.

"I'm going to experiment a bit, at first. I've got a lot of old motors,

that weren't speedy enough for any of my flying machines, and I'm going

to make them over. If I spoil them the loss won't amount to anything,

and if I succeed--well, maybe I can help out Uncle Sam a bit more."

As Tom had said he would do, he began at the very foundation, and

studied the fundamental principles of sound.

"Sound," the young inventor told Ned Newton, in speaking about the

problem, "is a sensation which is peculiar to the ear, though the

vibrations caused by sound waves may be felt in many parts of the body.

But the ear is the great receiver of sound."

"You aren't going to invent a sort of muffler for the ears, are you,

Tom?" asked Ned. "That would be an easy way of solving the problem, but

I doubt if you could get the Germans to wear your ear-tabs so they

wouldn't hear the sound of the Allied aeroplanes."

"No, I'm not figuring on doing the trick that way," said Tom with a

laugh. "I've really got to cut down the sound of the motor and the

propeller blades, so a person, listening with all his ears, won't hear

any noise, unless he's within a few feet of the plane."

"Well, I can tell you, right off the reel, how to do it," said the bank

employee.

"How?" asked Tom eagerly.

"Run your engine and propellers in a vacuum," was the prompt reply.

"Hum!" said Tom, musingly. "Yes, that would be a simple way out, and

I'll do it, if you'll tell me how to breathe in a vacuum."

"Oh, I didn't agree to do that," laughed Ned.

But he had spoken the truth, as those who have studied physics well

know. There must be an atmosphere for the transmission of sound, which

is the reason all is cold and silent and still at the moon. There is no

atmosphere there. Sound implies vibration. Something, such as liquid,

gas, or solid, must be set in motion to produce sound, and for the

purpose of science the air we breathe may be considered a gas, being

composed of two.