Or neuer after looke me in the face.

Speake not, reply not, do not answere me.

My fingers itch, wife: we scarce thought vs blest,

That God had lent vs but this onely Child,

But now I see this one is one too much,

And that we haue a curse in hauing her:

Out on her Hilding

 Nur. God in heauen blesse her,

You are too blame my Lord to rate her so

 Fa. And why my Lady wisedome? hold your tongue,

Good Prudence, smatter with your gossip, go

 Nur. I speak no treason,

Father, O Godigoden,

May not one speake?

 Fa. Peace you mumbling foole,

Vtter your grauitie ore a Gossips bowles

For here we need it not

 La. You are too hot

 Fa. Gods bread, it makes me mad:

Day, night, houre, ride, time, worke, play,

Alone in companie, still my care hath bin

To haue her matcht, and hauing now prouided

A Gentleman of Noble Parentage,

Of faire Demeanes, Youthfull, and Nobly Allied,

Stuft as they say with Honourable parts,

Proportion'd as ones thought would wish a man,

And then to haue a wretched puling foole,

A whining mammet, in her Fortunes tender,

To answer, Ile not wed, I cannot Loue:

I am too young, I pray you pardon me.

But, and you will not wed, Ile pardon you.

Graze where you will, you shall not house with me:

Looke too't, thinke on't, I do not vse to iest.

Thursday is neere, lay hand on heart, aduise,

And you be mine, Ile giue you to my Friend:

And you be not, hang, beg, starue, die in the streets,

For by my soule, Ile nere acknowledge thee,

Nor what is mine shall neuer do thee good:

Trust too't, bethinke you, Ile not be forsworne

Enter.

 Iuli. Is there no pittie sitting in the Cloudes,

That sees into the bottome of my griefe?

O sweet my Mother cast me not away,

Delay this marriage, for a month, a weeke,

Or if you do not, make the Bridall bed

In that dim Monument where Tybalt lies

 Mo. Talke not to me, for Ile not speake a word,

Do as thou wilt, for I haue done with thee.

Enter.

 Iul. O God!

O Nurse, how shall this be preuented?

My Husband is on earth, my faith in heauen,

How shall that faith returne againe to earth,

Vnlesse that Husband send it me from heauen,

By leauing earth? Comfort me, counsaile me:

Alacke, alacke, that heauen should practise stratagems

Vpon so soft a subiect as my selfe.

What saist thou? hast thou not a word of ioy?

Some comfort Nurse

 Nur. Faith here it is,

Romeo is banished, and all the world to nothing,

That he dares nere come backe to challenge you:

Or if he do, it needs must be by stealth.

Then since the case so stands as now it doth,

I thinke it best you married with the Countie,

O hee's a Louely Gentleman:

Romeos a dish-clout to him: an Eagle Madam

Hath not so greene, so quicke, so faire an eye

As Paris hath, beshrow my very heart,

I thinke you are happy in this second match,

For it excels your first: or if it did not,

Your first is dead, or 'twere as good he were,

As liuing here and you no vse of him

 Iul. Speakest thou from thy heart?

 Nur. And from my soule too,

Or else beshrew them both

 Iul. Amen

 Nur. What?

 Iul. Well, thou hast comforted me marue'lous much,

Go in, and tell my Lady I am gone,

Hauing displeas'd my Father, to Lawrence Cell,