present unknown. She saw all the glories of the camp: its tents

stretched forth in beauteous uniformity of lines, crowded with the young

and the gay, and dazzling with scarlet; and, to complete the view, she

saw herself seated beneath a tent, tenderly flirting with at least six

officers at once.

[Illustration:

“Tenderly flirting”

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

Had she known that her sister sought to tear her from such prospects and

such realities as these, what would have been her sensations? They could

have been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the

same. Lydia’s going to Brighton was all that consoled her for the

melancholy conviction of her husband’s never intending to go there

himself.

But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures

continued, with little intermission, to the very day of Lydia’s leaving

home.

Elizabeth was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last time. Having been

frequently in company with him since her return, agitation was pretty

well over; the agitations of former partiality entirely so. She had even

learnt to detect, in the very gentleness which had first delighted her,

an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary. In his present

behaviour to herself, moreover, she had a fresh source of displeasure;

for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those attentions which

had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve, after

what had since passed, to provoke her. She lost all concern for him in

finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous

gallantry; and while she steadily repressed it, could not but feel the

reproof contained in his believing, that however long, and for whatever

cause, his attentions had been withdrawn, her vanity would be gratified,

and her preference secured, at any time, by their renewal.

On the very last day of the regiment’s remaining in Meryton, he dined,

with others of the officers, at Longbourn; and so little was Elizabeth

disposed to part from him in good-humour, that, on his making some

inquiry as to the manner in which her time had passed at Hunsford, she

mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam’s and Mr. Darcy’s having both spent three

weeks at Rosings, and asked him if he were acquainted with the former.

He looked surprised, displeased, alarmed; but, with a moment’s

recollection, and a returning smile, replied, that he had formerly seen

him often; and, after observing that he was a very gentlemanlike man,

asked her how she had liked him. Her answer was warmly in his favour.

With an air of indifference, he soon afterwards added, “How long did you

say that he was at Rosings?”

“Nearly three weeks.”

“And you saw him frequently?”

“Yes, almost every day.”

“His manners are very different from his cousin’s.”

“Yes, very different; but I think Mr. Darcy improves on acquaintance.”

“Indeed!” cried Wickham, with a look which did not escape her. “And pray

may I ask--” but checking himself, he added, in a gayer tone, “Is it in

address that he improves? Has he deigned to add aught of civility to his

ordinary style? for I dare not hope,” he continued, in a lower and more

serious tone, “that he is improved in essentials.”

“Oh, no!” said Elizabeth. “In essentials, I believe, he is very much

what he ever was.”

While she spoke, Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to

rejoice over her words or to distrust their meaning. There was a

something in her countenance which made him listen with an apprehensive

and anxious attention, while she added,--

“When I said that he improved on acquaintance, I did not mean that

either his mind or manners were in a state of improvement; but that,

from knowing him better, his disposition was better understood.”

Wickham’s alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated

look; for a few minutes he was silent; till, shaking off his

embarrassment, he turned to her again, and said in the gentlest of

accents,--

“You, who so well know my feelings towards Mr. Darcy, will readily

comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume

even the _appearance_ of what is right. His pride, in that direction,

may be of service, if not to himself, to many others, for it must deter

him from such foul misconduct as I have suffered by. I only fear that

the sort of cautiousness to which you, I imagine, have been alluding, is

merely adopted on his visits to his aunt, of whose good opinion and

judgment he stands much in awe. His fear of her has always operated, I

know, when they were together; and a good deal is to be imputed to his

wish of forwarding the match with Miss de Bourgh, which I am certain he

has very much at heart.”

Elizabeth could not repress a smile at this, but she answered only by a

slight inclination of the head. She saw that he wanted to engage her on

the old subject of his grievances, and she was in no humour to indulge

him. The rest of the evening passed with the _appearance_, on his side,