happened to see some correspondence about you. These flying machine

people asked our bank to find out certain things about you, and, as a

matter of business, we had to give the information. Sort of a

commercial agency report, you know, nothing unusual, and it isn't the

first time it's been done since your business got so large. But that's

how I happened to know these fellows contemplated dickering with you."

"Do you know Gale or Ware?" Tom asked.

"Not personally. But in a business way, Tom, I'd warn you to look out

for them, as they're sharp dealers. They put one over on the government

all right, and there may be some unpleasant publicity to it later. But

they're putting up a big bluff, and pretending they can turn out a lot

of flying machines for use in Europe. Why don't you get busy on that

end of the game, Tom?"

"I know you've more than done your bit, with Liberty Bonds,

subscriptions to the Y. M. C. A. and other war work, besides your war

tank and other inventions. But you're such a shark on flying machines I

should think you'd offer your factory to the government for the

production of aeroplanes."

"I would in a minute, Ned, and you know it; but the fact of the matter

is my shops aren't equipped for the production of anything in large

numbers. We do mostly an experimenting business here, making only one

or two of a certain machine. I have told the government officials they

can have anything I've got, and you know they wouldn't let me enlist

when I was working on the war tank."

"Yes, I remember that," said Ned. "You're no slacker! I wanted to

shoulder a rifle, too, but they keep me at this Liberty Loan work.

Well, Uncle Sam ought to know."

"That's what I say," agreed Tom, "and that's why I haven't gone to the

front myself. And now, as it happens, I've got something else in mind

that may help Uncle Sam."

"What is it?"

"A silent flying machine for scout work on the battle front," Tom told

his friend, and then he gave a few details, such as those he had been

telling Mr. Damon.

"Then I don't wonder you turned down the offer of the Universal

people," remarked Ned, at the conclusion of the recital. "This will be

a heap more help to the government, Tom, than working for those people,

even at twenty-five thousand dollars a year. And if you get short, and

can't meet your newest Liberty Bond payments, why, I guess the bank

will stretch your credit a little."

"Thanks!" laughed Tom, "but I'll try not to ask them."

The friends talked together a little longer, and then Ned had to take

his departure to solicit more subscriptions, while Mr. Damon went with

him, the eccentric man saying he would go home to Waterfield.

"But, bless my overshoes, Tom!" he exclaimed, as he departed, "don't

forget to let me know when you have your silent motor working. I want

to see it."

"I'll let you know," was the promise given by the young inventor.

"And watch out for those Universal people," warned Ned. "I'm not

telling you this as a bank official, for I'm not supposed to, but it's

personal."

"I'll be on the watch," said Tom. And, as he went into his private

workshop, he wondered why it was his father and Ned had both warned him

not to trust Gale and Ware.

The next few days were busy ones for Tom Swift. Once he had made up his

mind to go to work seriously on a silent motor, all else was put aside.

He sent a note to Mary Nestor, telling her what he was going to do,

and, asking her to say nothing about it, which, of course, Mary agreed

to.

"Come and see me when you can," she sent back word, "but I know you

won't have much chance when you're experimenting with your invention.

And I shall be working so hard for the Red Cross that I sha'n't get

much chance to entertain you. But the war can't last forever."

"No," agreed Tom with a sigh, as he put away her letter, "and thank

goodness that it can't!"

The young inventor threw himself into the perplexing work of inventing

a silent motor with all the fervor he had given to the production of

his war tank, his giant cannon, his wonderful searchlight and other

machines.

"And," mused Tom, as he sat at his work table with pencil and paper

before him, "since this is a problem in acoustics, I had best begin I

suppose by going back to first principles, and after determining what

makes an aeroplane engine noisy, try to figure out how to make it

quiet. Now as to the first, the principle causes of noise are--"

And at that instant there broke on Tom's ears a succession of