which runs up round the Borgo Pass. The loop it makes is manifestly as

close to Dracula’s castle as can be got by water.

_Mina Harker’s Journal--continued._

When I had done reading, Jonathan took me in his arms and kissed me. The

others kept shaking me by both hands, and Dr. Van Helsing said:--

“Our dear Madam Mina is once more our teacher. Her eyes have been where

we were blinded. Now we are on the track once again, and this time we

may succeed. Our enemy is at his most helpless; and if we can come on

him by day, on the water, our task will be over. He has a start, but he

is powerless to hasten, as he may not leave his box lest those who carry

him may suspect; for them to suspect would be to prompt them to throw

him in the stream where he perish. This he knows, and will not. Now men,

to our Council of War; for, here and now, we must plan what each and all

shall do.”

“I shall get a steam launch and follow him,” said Lord Godalming.

“And I, horses to follow on the bank lest by chance he land,” said Mr.

Morris.

“Good!” said the Professor, “both good. But neither must go alone. There

must be force to overcome force if need be; the Slovak is strong and

rough, and he carries rude arms.” All the men smiled, for amongst them

they carried a small arsenal. Said Mr. Morris:--

“I have brought some Winchesters; they are pretty handy in a crowd, and

there may be wolves. The Count, if you remember, took some other

precautions; he made some requisitions on others that Mrs. Harker could

not quite hear or understand. We must be ready at all points.” Dr.

Seward said:--

“I think I had better go with Quincey. We have been accustomed to hunt

together, and we two, well armed, will be a match for whatever may come

along. You must not be alone, Art. It may be necessary to fight the

Slovaks, and a chance thrust--for I don’t suppose these fellows carry

guns--would undo all our plans. There must be no chances, this time; we

shall not rest until the Count’s head and body have been separated, and

we are sure that he cannot re-incarnate.” He looked at Jonathan as he

spoke, and Jonathan looked at me. I could see that the poor dear was

torn about in his mind. Of course he wanted to be with me; but then the

boat service would, most likely, be the one which would destroy the ...

the ... the ... Vampire. (Why did I hesitate to write the word?) He was

silent awhile, and during his silence Dr. Van Helsing spoke:--

“Friend Jonathan, this is to you for twice reasons. First, because you

are young and brave and can fight, and all energies may be needed at the

last; and again that it is your right to destroy him--that--which has

wrought such woe to you and yours. Be not afraid for Madam Mina; she

will be my care, if I may. I am old. My legs are not so quick to run as

once; and I am not used to ride so long or to pursue as need be, or to

fight with lethal weapons. But I can be of other service; I can fight in

other way. And I can die, if need be, as well as younger men. Now let

me say that what I would is this: while you, my Lord Godalming and

friend Jonathan go in your so swift little steamboat up the river, and

whilst John and Quincey guard the bank where perchance he might be

landed, I will take Madam Mina right into the heart of the enemy’s

country. Whilst the old fox is tied in his box, floating on the running

stream whence he cannot escape to land--where he dares not raise the lid

of his coffin-box lest his Slovak carriers should in fear leave him to

perish--we shall go in the track where Jonathan went,--from Bistritz

over the Borgo, and find our way to the Castle of Dracula. Here, Madam

Mina’s hypnotic power will surely help, and we shall find our way--all

dark and unknown otherwise--after the first sunrise when we are near

that fateful place. There is much to be done, and other places to be

made sanctify, so that that nest of vipers be obliterated.” Here

Jonathan interrupted him hotly:--

“Do you mean to say, Professor Van Helsing, that you would bring Mina,

in her sad case and tainted as she is with that devil’s illness, right

into the jaws of his death-trap? Not for the world! Not for Heaven or

Hell!” He became almost speechless for a minute, and then went on:--

“Do you know what the place is? Have you seen that awful den of hellish