And then I hope thou wilt be satisfied

 Iul. Indeed I neuer shall be satisfied

With Romeo, till I behold him. Dead

Is my poore heart so for a kinsman vext:

Madam, if you could find out but a man

To beare a poyson, I would temper it;

That Romeo should vpon receit thereof,

Soone sleepe in quiet. O how my heart abhors

To heare him nam'd, and cannot come to him,

To wreake the Loue I bore my Cozin,

Vpon his body that hath slaughter'd him

 Mo. Find thou the meanes, and Ile find such a man.

But now Ile tell thee ioyfull tidings Gyrle

 Iul. And ioy comes well, in such a needy time,

What are they, beseech your Ladyship?

 Mo. Well, well, thou hast a carefull Father Child?

One who to put thee from thy heauinesse,

Hath sorted out a sudden day of ioy,

That thou expects not, nor I lookt not for

 Iul. Madam in happy time, what day is this?

 Mo. Marry my Child, early next Thursday morne,

The gallant, young, and Noble Gentleman,

The Countie Paris at Saint Peters Church,

Shall happily make thee a ioyfull Bride

 Iul. Now by Saint Peters Church, and Peter too,

He shall not make me there a ioyfull Bride.

I wonder at this hast, that I must wed

Ere he that should be Husband comes to woe:

I pray you tell my Lord and Father Madam,

I will not marrie yet, and when I doe, I sweare

It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate

Rather then Paris. These are newes indeed

 Mo. Here comes your Father, tell him so your selfe,

And see how he will take it at your hands.

Enter Capulet and Nurse.

 Cap. When the Sun sets, the earth doth drizzle deaw

But for the Sunset of my Brothers Sonne,

It raines downright.

How now? A Conduit Gyrle, what still in teares?

Euermore showring in one little body?

Thou counterfaits a Barke, a Sea, a Wind:

For still thy eyes, which I may call the Sea,

Do ebbe and flow with teares, the Barke thy body is

Sayling in this salt floud, the windes thy sighes,

Who raging with the teares and they with them,

Without a sudden calme will ouer set

Thy tempest tossed body. How now wife?

Haue you deliuered to her our decree?

 Lady. I sir;

But she will none, she giues you thankes,

I would the foole were married to her graue

 Cap. Soft, take me with you, take me with you wife,

How, will she none? doth she not giue vs thanks?

Is she not proud? doth she not count her blest,

Vnworthy as she is, that we haue wrought

So worthy a Gentleman, to be her Bridegroome

 Iul. Not proud you haue,

But thankfull that you haue:

Proud can I neuer be of what I haue,

But thankfull euen for hate, that is meant Loue

 Cap. How now?

How now? Chopt Logicke? what is this?

Proud, and I thanke you: and I thanke you not.

Thanke me no thankings, nor proud me no prouds,

But fettle your fine ioints 'gainst Thursday next,

To go with Paris to Saint Peters Church:

Or I will drag thee, on a Hurdle thither.

Out you greene sicknesse carrion, out you baggage,

You tallow face

 Lady. Fie, fie, what are you mad?

 Iul. Good Father, I beseech you on my knees

Heare me with patience, but to speake a word

 Fa. Hang thee young baggage, disobedient wretch,

I tell thee what, get thee to Church a Thursday,