traditions of this place, or the crucifix itself, I do not know, but I

am not feeling nearly as easy in my mind as usual. If this book should

ever reach Mina before I do, let it bring my good-bye. Here comes the

coach!

 * * * * *

_5 May. The Castle._--The grey of the morning has passed, and the sun is

high over the distant horizon, which seems jagged, whether with trees or

hills I know not, for it is so far off that big things and little are

mixed. I am not sleepy, and, as I am not to be called till I awake,

naturally I write till sleep comes. There are many odd things to put

down, and, lest who reads them may fancy that I dined too well before I

left Bistritz, let me put down my dinner exactly. I dined on what they

called “robber steak”--bits of bacon, onion, and beef, seasoned with red

pepper, and strung on sticks and roasted over the fire, in the simple

style of the London cat’s meat! The wine was Golden Mediasch, which

produces a queer sting on the tongue, which is, however, not

disagreeable. I had only a couple of glasses of this, and nothing else.

When I got on the coach the driver had not taken his seat, and I saw him

talking with the landlady. They were evidently talking of me, for every

now and then they looked at me, and some of the people who were sitting

on the bench outside the door--which they call by a name meaning

“word-bearer”--came and listened, and then looked at me, most of them

pityingly. I could hear a lot of words often repeated, queer words, for

there were many nationalities in the crowd; so I quietly got my polyglot

dictionary from my bag and looked them out. I must say they were not

cheering to me, for amongst them were “Ordog”--Satan, “pokol”--hell,

“stregoica”--witch, “vrolok” and “vlkoslak”--both of which mean the same

thing, one being Slovak and the other Servian for something that is

either were-wolf or vampire. (_Mem._, I must ask the Count about these

superstitions)

When we started, the crowd round the inn door, which had by this time

swelled to a considerable size, all made the sign of the cross and

pointed two fingers towards me. With some difficulty I got a

fellow-passenger to tell me what they meant; he would not answer at

first, but on learning that I was English, he explained that it was a

charm or guard against the evil eye. This was not very pleasant for me,

just starting for an unknown place to meet an unknown man; but every one

seemed so kind-hearted, and so sorrowful, and so sympathetic that I

could not but be touched. I shall never forget the last glimpse which I

had of the inn-yard and its crowd of picturesque figures, all crossing

themselves, as they stood round the wide archway, with its background of

rich foliage of oleander and orange trees in green tubs clustered in the

centre of the yard. Then our driver, whose wide linen drawers covered

the whole front of the box-seat--“gotza” they call them--cracked his big

whip over his four small horses, which ran abreast, and we set off on

our journey.

I soon lost sight and recollection of ghostly fears in the beauty of the

scene as we drove along, although had I known the language, or rather

languages, which my fellow-passengers were speaking, I might not have

been able to throw them off so easily. Before us lay a green sloping

land full of forests and woods, with here and there steep hills, crowned

with clumps of trees or with farmhouses, the blank gable end to the

road. There was everywhere a bewildering mass of fruit blossom--apple,

plum, pear, cherry; and as we drove by I could see the green grass under

the trees spangled with the fallen petals. In and out amongst these

green hills of what they call here the “Mittel Land” ran the road,

losing itself as it swept round the grassy curve, or was shut out by the

straggling ends of pine woods, which here and there ran down the

hillsides like tongues of flame. The road was rugged, but still we

seemed to fly over it with a feverish haste. I could not understand then

what the haste meant, but the driver was evidently bent on losing no

time in reaching Borgo Prund. I was told that this road is in summertime

excellent, but that it had not yet been put in order after the winter

snows. In this respect it is different from the general run of roads in

the Carpathians, for it is an old tradition that they are not to be kept

in too good order. Of old the Hospadars would not repair them, lest the

Turk should think that they were preparing to bring in foreign troops,

and so hasten the war which was always really at loading point.

Beyond the green swelling hills of the Mittel Land rose mighty slopes

of forest up to the lofty steeps of the Carpathians themselves. Right

and left of us they towered, with the afternoon sun falling full upon

them and bringing out all the glorious colours of this beautiful range,

deep blue and purple in the shadows of the peaks, green and brown where

grass and rock mingled, and an endless perspective of jagged rock and