Carpathians. We have no fear in running at good speed up the river at

night; there is plenty of water, and the banks are wide enough apart to

make steaming, even in the dark, easy enough. Lord Godalming tells me to

sleep for a while, as it is enough for the present for one to be on

watch. But I cannot sleep--how can I with the terrible danger hanging

over my darling, and her going out into that awful place.... My only

comfort is that we are in the hands of God. Only for that faith it would

be easier to die than to live, and so be quit of all the trouble. Mr.

Morris and Dr. Seward were off on their long ride before we started;

they are to keep up the right bank, far enough off to get on higher

lands where they can see a good stretch of river and avoid the following

of its curves. They have, for the first stages, two men to ride and lead

their spare horses--four in all, so as not to excite curiosity. When

they dismiss the men, which shall be shortly, they shall themselves look

after the horses. It may be necessary for us to join forces; if so they

can mount our whole party. One of the saddles has a movable horn, and

can be easily adapted for Mina, if required.

It is a wild adventure we are on. Here, as we are rushing along through

the darkness, with the cold from the river seeming to rise up and strike

us; with all the mysterious voices of the night around us, it all comes

home. We seem to be drifting into unknown places and unknown ways; into

a whole world of dark and dreadful things. Godalming is shutting the

furnace door....

 * * * * *

_31 October._--Still hurrying along. The day has come, and Godalming is

sleeping. I am on watch. The morning is bitterly cold; the furnace heat

is grateful, though we have heavy fur coats. As yet we have passed only

a few open boats, but none of them had on board any box or package of

anything like the size of the one we seek. The men were scared every

time we turned our electric lamp on them, and fell on their knees and

prayed.

 * * * * *

_1 November, evening._--No news all day; we have found nothing of the

kind we seek. We have now passed into the Bistritza; and if we are wrong

in our surmise our chance is gone. We have over-hauled every boat, big

and little. Early this morning, one crew took us for a Government boat,

and treated us accordingly. We saw in this a way of smoothing matters,

so at Fundu, where the Bistritza runs into the Sereth, we got a

Roumanian flag which we now fly conspicuously. With every boat which we

have over-hauled since then this trick has succeeded; we have had every

deference shown to us, and not once any objection to whatever we chose

to ask or do. Some of the Slovaks tell us that a big boat passed them,

going at more than usual speed as she had a double crew on board. This

was before they came to Fundu, so they could not tell us whether the

boat turned into the Bistritza or continued on up the Sereth. At Fundu

we could not hear of any such boat, so she must have passed there in the

night. I am feeling very sleepy; the cold is perhaps beginning to tell

upon me, and nature must have rest some time. Godalming insists that he

shall keep the first watch. God bless him for all his goodness to poor

dear Mina and me.

 * * * * *

_2 November, morning._--It is broad daylight. That good fellow would not

wake me. He says it would have been a sin to, for I slept peacefully and

was forgetting my trouble. It seems brutally selfish to me to have slept

so long, and let him watch all night; but he was quite right. I am a new

man this morning; and, as I sit here and watch him sleeping, I can do

all that is necessary both as to minding the engine, steering, and

keeping watch. I can feel that my strength and energy are coming back to

me. I wonder where Mina is now, and Van Helsing. They should have got to

Veresti about noon on Wednesday. It would take them some time to get the

carriage and horses; so if they had started and travelled hard, they