“It is Mina Murray that I came to see that was friend of that poor dear

child Lucy Westenra. Madam Mina, it is on account of the dead I come.”

“Sir,” I said, “you could have no better claim on me than that you were

a friend and helper of Lucy Westenra.” And I held out my hand. He took

it and said tenderly:--

“Oh, Madam Mina, I knew that the friend of that poor lily girl must be

good, but I had yet to learn----” He finished his speech with a courtly

bow. I asked him what it was that he wanted to see me about, so he at

once began:--

“I have read your letters to Miss Lucy. Forgive me, but I had to begin

to inquire somewhere, and there was none to ask. I know that you were

with her at Whitby. She sometimes kept a diary--you need not look

surprised, Madam Mina; it was begun after you had left, and was in

imitation of you--and in that diary she traces by inference certain

things to a sleep-walking in which she puts down that you saved her. In

great perplexity then I come to you, and ask you out of your so much

kindness to tell me all of it that you can remember.”

“I can tell you, I think, Dr. Van Helsing, all about it.”

“Ah, then you have good memory for facts, for details? It is not always

so with young ladies.”

“No, doctor, but I wrote it all down at the time. I can show it to you

if you like.”

“Oh, Madam Mina, I will be grateful; you will do me much favour.” I

could not resist the temptation of mystifying him a bit--I suppose it is

some of the taste of the original apple that remains still in our

mouths--so I handed him the shorthand diary. He took it with a grateful

bow, and said:--

“May I read it?”

“If you wish,” I answered as demurely as I could. He opened it, and for

an instant his face fell. Then he stood up and bowed.

“Oh, you so clever woman!” he said. “I knew long that Mr. Jonathan was a

man of much thankfulness; but see, his wife have all the good things.

And will you not so much honour me and so help me as to read it for me?

Alas! I know not the shorthand.” By this time my little joke was over,

and I was almost ashamed; so I took the typewritten copy from my

workbasket and handed it to him.

“Forgive me,” I said: “I could not help it; but I had been thinking that

it was of dear Lucy that you wished to ask, and so that you might not

have time to wait--not on my account, but because I know your time must

be precious--I have written it out on the typewriter for you.”

He took it and his eyes glistened. “You are so good,” he said. “And may

I read it now? I may want to ask you some things when I have read.”

“By all means,” I said, “read it over whilst I order lunch; and then you

can ask me questions whilst we eat.” He bowed and settled himself in a

chair with his back to the light, and became absorbed in the papers,

whilst I went to see after lunch chiefly in order that he might not be

disturbed. When I came back, I found him walking hurriedly up and down

the room, his face all ablaze with excitement. He rushed up to me and

took me by both hands.

“Oh, Madam Mina,” he said, “how can I say what I owe to you? This paper

is as sunshine. It opens the gate to me. I am daze, I am dazzle, with so

much light, and yet clouds roll in behind the light every time. But that

you do not, cannot, comprehend. Oh, but I am grateful to you, you so

clever woman. Madam”--he said this very solemnly--“if ever Abraham Van

Helsing can do anything for you or yours, I trust you will let me know.

It will be pleasure and delight if I may serve you as a friend; as a

friend, but all I have ever learned, all I can ever do, shall be for you

and those you love. There are darknesses in life, and there are lights;

you are one of the lights. You will have happy life and good life, and

your husband will be blessed in you.”

“But, doctor, you praise me too much, and--and you do not know me.”

“Not know you--I, who am old, and who have studied all my life men and

women; I, who have made my specialty the brain and all that belongs to

him and all that follow from him! And I have read your diary that you

have so goodly written for me, and which breathes out truth in every

line. I, who have read your so sweet letter to poor Lucy of your

marriage and your trust, not know you! Oh, Madam Mina, good women tell

all their lives, and by day and by hour and by minute, such things that

angels can read; and we men who wish to know have in us something of