side of the road, and the Maybury Inn with its swinging sign. I saw the

doctor’s cart ahead of me. At the bottom of the hill I turned my head

to look at the hillside I was leaving. Thick streamers of black smoke

shot with threads of red fire were driving up into the still air, and

throwing dark shadows upon the green treetops eastward. The smoke

already extended far away to the east and west—to the Byfleet pine

woods eastward, and to Woking on the west. The road was dotted with

people running towards us. And very faint now, but very distinct

through the hot, quiet air, one heard the whirr of a machine-gun that

was presently stilled, and an intermittent cracking of rifles.

Apparently the Martians were setting fire to everything within range of

their Heat-Ray.

I am not an expert driver, and I had immediately to turn my attention

to the horse. When I looked back again the second hill had hidden the

black smoke. I slashed the horse with the whip, and gave him a loose

rein until Woking and Send lay between us and that quivering tumult. I

overtook and passed the doctor between Woking and Send.

X.

IN THE STORM.

Leatherhead is about twelve miles from Maybury Hill. The scent of hay

was in the air through the lush meadows beyond Pyrford, and the hedges

on either side were sweet and gay with multitudes of dog-roses. The

heavy firing that had broken out while we were driving down Maybury

Hill ceased as abruptly as it began, leaving the evening very peaceful

and still. We got to Leatherhead without misadventure about nine

o’clock, and the horse had an hour’s rest while I took supper with my

cousins and commended my wife to their care.

My wife was curiously silent throughout the drive, and seemed oppressed

with forebodings of evil. I talked to her reassuringly, pointing out

that the Martians were tied to the pit by sheer heaviness, and at the

utmost could but crawl a little out of it; but she answered only in

monosyllables. Had it not been for my promise to the innkeeper, she

would, I think, have urged me to stay in Leatherhead that night. Would

that I had! Her face, I remember, was very white as we parted.

For my own part, I had been feverishly excited all day. Something very

like the war fever that occasionally runs through a civilised community

had got into my blood, and in my heart I was not so very sorry that I

had to return to Maybury that night. I was even afraid that that last

fusillade I had heard might mean the extermination of our invaders from

Mars. I can best express my state of mind by saying that I wanted to be

in at the death.

It was nearly eleven when I started to return. The night was

unexpectedly dark; to me, walking out of the lighted passage of my

cousins’ house, it seemed indeed black, and it was as hot and close as

the day. Overhead the clouds were driving fast, albeit not a breath

stirred the shrubs about us. My cousins’ man lit both lamps. Happily, I

knew the road intimately. My wife stood in the light of the doorway,

and watched me until I jumped up into the dog cart. Then abruptly she

turned and went in, leaving my cousins side by side wishing me good

hap.

I was a little depressed at first with the contagion of my wife’s

fears, but very soon my thoughts reverted to the Martians. At that time

I was absolutely in the dark as to the course of the evening’s

fighting. I did not know even the circumstances that had precipitated

the conflict. As I came through Ockham (for that was the way I

returned, and not through Send and Old Woking) I saw along the western

horizon a blood-red glow, which as I drew nearer, crept slowly up the

sky. The driving clouds of the gathering thunderstorm mingled there

with masses of black and red smoke.

Ripley Street was deserted, and except for a lighted window or so the

village showed not a sign of life; but I narrowly escaped an accident

at the corner of the road to Pyrford, where a knot of people stood with

their backs to me. They said nothing to me as I passed. I do not know

what they knew of the things happening beyond the hill, nor do I know

if the silent houses I passed on my way were sleeping securely, or

deserted and empty, or harassed and watching against the terror of the

night.

From Ripley until I came through Pyrford I was in the valley of the