parties, the leader of the gypsies gave a command; his men instantly

formed round the cart in a sort of undisciplined endeavour, each one

shouldering and pushing the other in his eagerness to carry out the

order.

In the midst of this I could see that Jonathan on one side of the ring

of men, and Quincey on the other, were forcing a way to the cart; it was

evident that they were bent on finishing their task before the sun

should set. Nothing seemed to stop or even to hinder them. Neither the

levelled weapons nor the flashing knives of the gypsies in front, nor

the howling of the wolves behind, appeared to even attract their

attention. Jonathan’s impetuosity, and the manifest singleness of his

purpose, seemed to overawe those in front of him; instinctively they

cowered, aside and let him pass. In an instant he had jumped upon the

cart, and, with a strength which seemed incredible, raised the great

box, and flung it over the wheel to the ground. In the meantime, Mr.

Morris had had to use force to pass through his side of the ring of

Szgany. All the time I had been breathlessly watching Jonathan I had,

with the tail of my eye, seen him pressing desperately forward, and had

seen the knives of the gypsies flash as he won a way through them, and

they cut at him. He had parried with his great bowie knife, and at first

I thought that he too had come through in safety; but as he sprang

beside Jonathan, who had by now jumped from the cart, I could see that

with his left hand he was clutching at his side, and that the blood was

spurting through his fingers. He did not delay notwithstanding this, for

as Jonathan, with desperate energy, attacked one end of the chest,

attempting to prize off the lid with his great Kukri knife, he attacked

the other frantically with his bowie. Under the efforts of both men the

lid began to yield; the nails drew with a quick screeching sound, and

the top of the box was thrown back.

By this time the gypsies, seeing themselves covered by the Winchesters,

and at the mercy of Lord Godalming and Dr. Seward, had given in and made

no resistance. The sun was almost down on the mountain tops, and the

shadows of the whole group fell long upon the snow. I saw the Count

lying within the box upon the earth, some of which the rude falling from

the cart had scattered over him. He was deathly pale, just like a waxen

image, and the red eyes glared with the horrible vindictive look which I

knew too well.

As I looked, the eyes saw the sinking sun, and the look of hate in them

turned to triumph.

But, on the instant, came the sweep and flash of Jonathan’s great knife.

I shrieked as I saw it shear through the throat; whilst at the same

moment Mr. Morris’s bowie knife plunged into the heart.

It was like a miracle; but before our very eyes, and almost in the

drawing of a breath, the whole body crumbled into dust and passed from

our sight.

I shall be glad as long as I live that even in that moment of final

dissolution, there was in the face a look of peace, such as I never

could have imagined might have rested there.

The Castle of Dracula now stood out against the red sky, and every stone

of its broken battlements was articulated against the light of the

setting sun.

The gypsies, taking us as in some way the cause of the extraordinary

disappearance of the dead man, turned, without a word, and rode away as

if for their lives. Those who were unmounted jumped upon the

leiter-wagon and shouted to the horsemen not to desert them. The wolves,

which had withdrawn to a safe distance, followed in their wake, leaving

us alone.

Mr. Morris, who had sunk to the ground, leaned on his elbow, holding his

hand pressed to his side; the blood still gushed through his fingers. I

flew to him, for the Holy circle did not now keep me back; so did the

two doctors. Jonathan knelt behind him and the wounded man laid back his

head on his shoulder. With a sigh he took, with a feeble effort, my hand

in that of his own which was unstained. He must have seen the anguish of

my heart in my face, for he smiled at me and said:--

“I am only too happy to have been of any service! Oh, God!” he cried

suddenly, struggling up to a sitting posture and pointing to me, “It was

worth for this to die! Look! look!”

The sun was now right down upon the mountain top, and the red gleams

fell upon my face, so that it was bathed in rosy light. With one impulse

the men sank on their knees and a deep and earnest “Amen” broke from all

as their eyes followed the pointing of his finger. The dying man

spoke:--

“Now God be thanked that all has not been in vain! See! the snow is not