 Mer. Sure wit, follow me this ieast, now till thou hast

worne out thy Pump, that when the single sole of it is

worne, the ieast may remaine after the wearing, sole-singular

 Rom. O single sol'd ieast,

Soly singular for the singlenesse

 Mer. Come betweene vs good Benuolio, my wits faints

 Rom. Swits and spurs,

Swits and spurs, or Ile crie a match

 Mer. Nay, if our wits run the Wild-Goose chase, I am

done: For thou hast more of the Wild-Goose in one of

thy wits, then I am sure I haue in my whole fiue. Was I

with you there for the Goose?

 Rom. Thou wast neuer with mee for any thing, when

thou wast not there for the Goose

 Mer. I will bite thee by the eare for that iest

 Rom. Nay, good Goose bite not

 Mer. Thy wit is a very Bitter-sweeting,

It is a most sharpe sawce

 Rom. And is it not well seru'd into a Sweet-Goose?

 Mer. Oh here's a wit of Cheuerell, that stretches from

an ynch narrow, to an ell broad

 Rom. I stretch it out for that word, broad, which added

to the Goose, proues thee farre and wide, abroad Goose

 Mer. Why is not this better now, then groning for

Loue, now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo: now art

thou what thou art, by Art as well as by Nature, for this

driueling Loue is like a great Naturall, that runs lolling

vp and downe to hid his bable in a hole

 Ben. Stop there, stop there

 Mer. Thou desir'st me to stop in my tale against the haire

 Ben. Thou would'st else haue made thy tale large

 Mer. O thou art deceiu'd, I would haue made it short,

or I was come to the whole depth of my tale, and meant

indeed to occupie the argument no longer.

Enter Nurse and her man.

 Rom. Here's a goodly geare.

A sayle, a sayle

 Mer. Two, two: a Shirt and a Smocke

 Nur. Peter?

 Peter. Anon

 Nur. My Fan Peter?

 Mer. Good Peter to hide her face?

For her Fans the fairer face?

 Nur. God ye good morrow Gentlemen

 Mer. God ye gooden faire Gentlewoman

 Nur. Is it gooden?

 Mer. 'Tis no lesse I tell you: for the bawdy hand of the

Dyall is now vpon the pricke of Noone

 Nur. Out vpon you: what a man are you?

 Rom. One Gentlewoman,

That God hath made, himselfe to mar

 Nur. By my troth it is said, for himselfe to, mar quatha:

Gentlemen, can any of you tel me where I may find

the young Romeo?

 Romeo. I can tell you: but young Romeo will be older

when you haue found him, then he was when you sought

him: I am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse

 Nur. You say well

 Mer. Yea is the worst well,

Very well tooke: Ifaith, wisely, wisely

 Nur. If you be he sir,

I desire some confidence with you?

 Ben. She will endite him to some Supper