_1 November._--All day long we have travelled, and at a good speed. The

horses seem to know that they are being kindly treated, for they go

willingly their full stage at best speed. We have now had so many

changes and find the same thing so constantly that we are encouraged to

think that the journey will be an easy one. Dr. Van Helsing is laconic;

he tells the farmers that he is hurrying to Bistritz, and pays them well

to make the exchange of horses. We get hot soup, or coffee, or tea; and

off we go. It is a lovely country; full of beauties of all imaginable

kinds, and the people are brave, and strong, and simple, and seem full

of nice qualities. They are _very, very_ superstitious. In the first

house where we stopped, when the woman who served us saw the scar on my

forehead, she crossed herself and put out two fingers towards me, to

keep off the evil eye. I believe they went to the trouble of putting an

extra amount of garlic into our food; and I can’t abide garlic. Ever

since then I have taken care not to take off my hat or veil, and so have

escaped their suspicions. We are travelling fast, and as we have no

driver with us to carry tales, we go ahead of scandal; but I daresay

that fear of the evil eye will follow hard behind us all the way. The

Professor seems tireless; all day he would not take any rest, though he

made me sleep for a long spell. At sunset time he hypnotised me, and he

says that I answered as usual “darkness, lapping water and creaking

wood”; so our enemy is still on the river. I am afraid to think of

Jonathan, but somehow I have now no fear for him, or for myself. I write

this whilst we wait in a farmhouse for the horses to be got ready. Dr.

Van Helsing is sleeping. Poor dear, he looks very tired and old and

grey, but his mouth is set as firmly as a conqueror’s; even in his sleep

he is instinct with resolution. When we have well started I must make

him rest whilst I drive. I shall tell him that we have days before us,

and we must not break down when most of all his strength will be

needed.... All is ready; we are off shortly.

 * * * * *

_2 November, morning._--I was successful, and we took turns driving all

night; now the day is on us, bright though cold. There is a strange

heaviness in the air--I say heaviness for want of a better word; I mean

that it oppresses us both. It is very cold, and only our warm furs keep

us comfortable. At dawn Van Helsing hypnotised me; he says I answered

“darkness, creaking wood and roaring water,” so the river is changing as

they ascend. I do hope that my darling will not run any chance of

danger--more than need be; but we are in God’s hands.

 * * * * *

_2 November, night._--All day long driving. The country gets wilder as

we go, and the great spurs of the Carpathians, which at Veresti seemed

so far from us and so low on the horizon, now seem to gather round us

and tower in front. We both seem in good spirits; I think we make an

effort each to cheer the other; in the doing so we cheer ourselves. Dr.

Van Helsing says that by morning we shall reach the Borgo Pass. The

houses are very few here now, and the Professor says that the last horse

we got will have to go on with us, as we may not be able to change. He

got two in addition to the two we changed, so that now we have a rude

four-in-hand. The dear horses are patient and good, and they give us no

trouble. We are not worried with other travellers, and so even I can

drive. We shall get to the Pass in daylight; we do not want to arrive

before. So we take it easy, and have each a long rest in turn. Oh, what

will to-morrow bring to us? We go to seek the place where my poor

darling suffered so much. God grant that we may be guided aright, and

that He will deign to watch over my husband and those dear to us both,

and who are in such deadly peril. As for me, I am not worthy in His

sight. Alas! I am unclean to His eyes, and shall be until He may deign

to let me stand forth in His sight as one of those who have not incurred

His wrath.

_Memorandum by Abraham Van Helsing._

_4 November._--This to my old and true friend John Seward, M.D., of