had not been touched in the meantime and some interest had accumulated.

Besides that, they had not been using up all the money that Gregor had

been bringing home every month, keeping only a little for himself, so

that that, too, had been accumulating. Behind the door, Gregor nodded

with enthusiasm in his pleasure at this unexpected thrift and caution.

He could actually have used this surplus money to reduce his father’s

debt to his boss, and the day when he could have freed himself from

that job would have come much closer, but now it was certainly better

the way his father had done things.

This money, however, was certainly not enough to enable the family to

live off the interest; it was enough to maintain them for, perhaps, one

or two years, no more. That’s to say, it was money that should not

really be touched but set aside for emergencies; money to live on had

to be earned. His father was healthy but old, and lacking in self

confidence. During the five years that he had not been working—the

first holiday in a life that had been full of strain and no success—he

had put on a lot of weight and become very slow and clumsy. Would

Gregor’s elderly mother now have to go and earn money? She suffered

from asthma and it was a strain for her just to move about the home,

every other day would be spent struggling for breath on the sofa by the

open window. Would his sister have to go and earn money? She was still

a child of seventeen, her life up till then had been very enviable,

consisting of wearing nice clothes, sleeping late, helping out in the

business, joining in with a few modest pleasures and most of all

playing the violin. Whenever they began to talk of the need to earn

money, Gregor would always first let go of the door and then throw

himself onto the cool, leather sofa next to it, as he became quite hot

with shame and regret.

He would often lie there the whole night through, not sleeping a wink

but scratching at the leather for hours on end. Or he might go to all

the effort of pushing a chair to the window, climbing up onto the sill

and, propped up in the chair, leaning on the window to stare out of it.

He had used to feel a great sense of freedom from doing this, but doing

it now was obviously something more remembered than experienced, as

what he actually saw in this way was becoming less distinct every day,

even things that were quite near; he had used to curse the ever-present

view of the hospital across the street, but now he could not see it at

all, and if he had not known that he lived in Charlottenstrasse, which

was a quiet street despite being in the middle of the city, he could

have thought that he was looking out the window at a barren waste where

the grey sky and the grey earth mingled inseparably. His observant

sister only needed to notice the chair twice before she would always

push it back to its exact position by the window after she had tidied

up the room, and even left the inner pane of the window open from then

on.

If Gregor had only been able to speak to his sister and thank her for

all that she had to do for him it would have been easier for him to

bear it; but as it was it caused him pain. His sister, naturally, tried

as far as possible to pretend there was nothing burdensome about it,

and the longer it went on, of course, the better she was able to do so,

but as time went by Gregor was also able to see through it all so much

better. It had even become very unpleasant for him, now, whenever she

entered the room. No sooner had she come in than she would quickly

close the door as a precaution so that no-one would have to suffer the

view into Gregor’s room, then she would go straight to the window and

pull it hurriedly open almost as if she were suffocating. Even if it

was cold, she would stay at the window breathing deeply for a little

while. She would alarm Gregor twice a day with this running about and

noise making; he would stay under the couch shivering the whole while,

knowing full well that she would certainly have liked to spare him this

ordeal, but it was impossible for her to be in the same room with him

with the windows closed.

One day, about a month after Gregor’s transformation when his sister no

longer had any particular reason to be shocked at his appearance, she

came into the room a little earlier than usual and found him still

staring out the window, motionless, and just where he would be most

horrible. In itself, his sister’s not coming into the room would have

been no surprise for Gregor as it would have been difficult for her to

immediately open the window while he was still there, but not only did

she not come in, she went straight back and closed the door behind her,

a stranger would have thought he had threatened her and tried to bite

her. Gregor went straight to hide himself under the couch, of course,

but he had to wait until midday before his sister came back and she

seemed much more uneasy than usual. It made him realise that she still

found his appearance unbearable and would continue to do so, she

probably even had to overcome the urge to flee when she saw the little

bit of him that protruded from under the couch. One day, in order to

spare her even this sight, he spent four hours carrying the bedsheet

over to the couch on his back and arranged it so that he was completely