placed the flowers amongst the others on and around the bed. Then he

took from his neck, inside his collar, a little gold crucifix, and

placed it over the mouth. He restored the sheet to its place, and we

came away.

I was undressing in my own room, when, with a premonitory tap at the

door, he entered, and at once began to speak:--

“To-morrow I want you to bring me, before night, a set of post-mortem

knives.”

“Must we make an autopsy?” I asked.

“Yes and no. I want to operate, but not as you think. Let me tell you

now, but not a word to another. I want to cut off her head and take out

her heart. Ah! you a surgeon, and so shocked! You, whom I have seen with

no tremble of hand or heart, do operations of life and death that make

the rest shudder. Oh, but I must not forget, my dear friend John, that

you loved her; and I have not forgotten it, for it is I that shall

operate, and you must only help. I would like to do it to-night, but for

Arthur I must not; he will be free after his father’s funeral to-morrow,

and he will want to see her--to see _it_. Then, when she is coffined

ready for the next day, you and I shall come when all sleep. We shall

unscrew the coffin-lid, and shall do our operation: and then replace

all, so that none know, save we alone.”

“But why do it at all? The girl is dead. Why mutilate her poor body

without need? And if there is no necessity for a post-mortem and nothing

to gain by it--no good to her, to us, to science, to human

knowledge--why do it? Without such it is monstrous.”

For answer he put his hand on my shoulder, and said, with infinite

tenderness:--

“Friend John, I pity your poor bleeding heart; and I love you the more

because it does so bleed. If I could, I would take on myself the burden

that you do bear. But there are things that you know not, but that you

shall know, and bless me for knowing, though they are not pleasant

things. John, my child, you have been my friend now many years, and yet

did you ever know me to do any without good cause? I may err--I am but

man; but I believe in all I do. Was it not for these causes that you

send for me when the great trouble came? Yes! Were you not amazed, nay

horrified, when I would not let Arthur kiss his love--though she was

dying--and snatched him away by all my strength? Yes! And yet you saw

how she thanked me, with her so beautiful dying eyes, her voice, too, so

weak, and she kiss my rough old hand and bless me? Yes! And did you not

hear me swear promise to her, that so she closed her eyes grateful? Yes!

“Well, I have good reason now for all I want to do. You have for many

years trust me; you have believe me weeks past, when there be things so

strange that you might have well doubt. Believe me yet a little, friend

John. If you trust me not, then I must tell what I think; and that is

not perhaps well. And if I work--as work I shall, no matter trust or no

trust--without my friend trust in me, I work with heavy heart and feel,

oh! so lonely when I want all help and courage that may be!” He paused a

moment and went on solemnly: “Friend John, there are strange and

terrible days before us. Let us not be two, but one, that so we work to

a good end. Will you not have faith in me?”

I took his hand, and promised him. I held my door open as he went away,

and watched him go into his room and close the door. As I stood without

moving, I saw one of the maids pass silently along the passage--she had

her back towards me, so did not see me--and go into the room where Lucy

lay. The sight touched me. Devotion is so rare, and we are so grateful

to those who show it unasked to those we love. Here was a poor girl

putting aside the terrors which she naturally had of death to go watch

alone by the bier of the mistress whom she loved, so that the poor clay

might not be lonely till laid to eternal rest....