brought me here. This is a terrible thought; for if so, what does it

mean that he could control the wolves, as he did, by only holding up his

hand in silence. How was it that all the people at Bistritz and on the

coach had some terrible fear for me? What meant the giving of the

crucifix, of the garlic, of the wild rose, of the mountain ash? Bless

that good, good woman who hung the crucifix round my neck! for it is a

comfort and a strength to me whenever I touch it. It is odd that a thing

which I have been taught to regard with disfavour and as idolatrous

should in a time of loneliness and trouble be of help. Is it that there

is something in the essence of the thing itself, or that it is a medium,

a tangible help, in conveying memories of sympathy and comfort? Some

time, if it may be, I must examine this matter and try to make up my

mind about it. In the meantime I must find out all I can about Count

Dracula, as it may help me to understand. To-night he may talk of

himself, if I turn the conversation that way. I must be very careful,

however, not to awake his suspicion.

 * * * * *

_Midnight._--I have had a long talk with the Count. I asked him a few

questions on Transylvania history, and he warmed up to the subject

wonderfully. In his speaking of things and people, and especially of

battles, he spoke as if he had been present at them all. This he

afterwards explained by saying that to a _boyar_ the pride of his house

and name is his own pride, that their glory is his glory, that their

fate is his fate. Whenever he spoke of his house he always said “we,”

and spoke almost in the plural, like a king speaking. I wish I could put

down all he said exactly as he said it, for to me it was most

fascinating. It seemed to have in it a whole history of the country. He

grew excited as he spoke, and walked about the room pulling his great

white moustache and grasping anything on which he laid his hands as

though he would crush it by main strength. One thing he said which I

shall put down as nearly as I can; for it tells in its way the story of

his race:--

“We Szekelys have a right to be proud, for in our veins flows the blood

of many brave races who fought as the lion fights, for lordship. Here,

in the whirlpool of European races, the Ugric tribe bore down from

Iceland the fighting spirit which Thor and Wodin gave them, which their

Berserkers displayed to such fell intent on the seaboards of Europe, ay,

and of Asia and Africa too, till the peoples thought that the

were-wolves themselves had come. Here, too, when they came, they found

the Huns, whose warlike fury had swept the earth like a living flame,

till the dying peoples held that in their veins ran the blood of those

old witches, who, expelled from Scythia had mated with the devils in the

desert. Fools, fools! What devil or what witch was ever so great as

Attila, whose blood is in these veins?” He held up his arms. “Is it a

wonder that we were a conquering race; that we were proud; that when the

Magyar, the Lombard, the Avar, the Bulgar, or the Turk poured his

thousands on our frontiers, we drove them back? Is it strange that when

Arpad and his legions swept through the Hungarian fatherland he found us

here when he reached the frontier; that the Honfoglalas was completed

there? And when the Hungarian flood swept eastward, the Szekelys were

claimed as kindred by the victorious Magyars, and to us for centuries

was trusted the guarding of the frontier of Turkey-land; ay, and more

than that, endless duty of the frontier guard, for, as the Turks say,

‘water sleeps, and enemy is sleepless.’ Who more gladly than we

throughout the Four Nations received the ‘bloody sword,’ or at its

warlike call flocked quicker to the standard of the King? When was

redeemed that great shame of my nation, the shame of Cassova, when the

flags of the Wallach and the Magyar went down beneath the Crescent? Who

was it but one of my own race who as Voivode crossed the Danube and beat

the Turk on his own ground? This was a Dracula indeed! Woe was it that

his own unworthy brother, when he had fallen, sold his people to the

Turk and brought the shame of slavery on them! Was it not this Dracula,

indeed, who inspired that other of his race who in a later age again and

again brought his forces over the great river into Turkey-land; who,

when he was beaten back, came again, and again, and again, though he had

to come alone from the bloody field where his troops were being

slaughtered, since he knew that he alone could ultimately triumph! They