woods, he said, were still burning, and pointed out a haze of smoke to

me. “They will be hot under foot for days, on account of the thick soil

of pine needles and turf,” he said, and then grew serious over “poor

Ogilvy.”

After breakfast, instead of working, I decided to walk down towards the

common. Under the railway bridge I found a group of soldiers—sappers, I

think, men in small round caps, dirty red jackets unbuttoned, and

showing their blue shirts, dark trousers, and boots coming to the calf.

They told me no one was allowed over the canal, and, looking along the

road towards the bridge, I saw one of the Cardigan men standing

sentinel there. I talked with these soldiers for a time; I told them of

my sight of the Martians on the previous evening. None of them had seen

the Martians, and they had but the vaguest ideas of them, so that they

plied me with questions. They said that they did not know who had

authorised the movements of the troops; their idea was that a dispute

had arisen at the Horse Guards. The ordinary sapper is a great deal

better educated than the common soldier, and they discussed the

peculiar conditions of the possible fight with some acuteness. I

described the Heat-Ray to them, and they began to argue among

themselves.

“Crawl up under cover and rush ’em, say I,” said one.

“Get aht!” said another. “What’s cover against this ’ere ’eat? Sticks

to cook yer! What we got to do is to go as near as the ground’ll let

us, and then drive a trench.”

“Blow yer trenches! You always want trenches; you ought to ha’ been

born a rabbit Snippy.”

“Ain’t they got any necks, then?” said a third, abruptly—a little,

contemplative, dark man, smoking a pipe.

I repeated my description.

“Octopuses,” said he, “that’s what I calls ’em. Talk about fishers of

men—fighters of fish it is this time!”

“It ain’t no murder killing beasts like that,” said the first speaker.

“Why not shell the darned things strite off and finish ’em?” said the

little dark man. “You carn tell what they might do.”

“Where’s your shells?” said the first speaker. “There ain’t no time. Do

it in a rush, that’s my tip, and do it at once.”

So they discussed it. After a while I left them, and went on to the

railway station to get as many morning papers as I could.

But I will not weary the reader with a description of that long morning

and of the longer afternoon. I did not succeed in getting a glimpse of

the common, for even Horsell and Chobham church towers were in the

hands of the military authorities. The soldiers I addressed didn’t know

anything; the officers were mysterious as well as busy. I found people

in the town quite secure again in the presence of the military, and I

heard for the first time from Marshall, the tobacconist, that his son

was among the dead on the common. The soldiers had made the people on

the outskirts of Horsell lock up and leave their houses.

I got back to lunch about two, very tired for, as I have said, the day

was extremely hot and dull; and in order to refresh myself I took a

cold bath in the afternoon. About half past four I went up to the

railway station to get an evening paper, for the morning papers had

contained only a very inaccurate description of the killing of Stent,

Henderson, Ogilvy, and the others. But there was little I didn’t know.

The Martians did not show an inch of themselves. They seemed busy in

their pit, and there was a sound of hammering and an almost continuous

streamer of smoke. Apparently they were busy getting ready for a

struggle. “Fresh attempts have been made to signal, but without

success,” was the stereotyped formula of the papers. A sapper told me

it was done by a man in a ditch with a flag on a long pole. The

Martians took as much notice of such advances as we should of the

lowing of a cow.

I must confess the sight of all this armament, all this preparation,

greatly excited me. My imagination became belligerent, and defeated the

invaders in a dozen striking ways; something of my schoolboy dreams of

battle and heroism came back. It hardly seemed a fair fight to me at

that time. They seemed very helpless in that pit of theirs.

About three o’clock there began the thud of a gun at measured intervals

from Chertsey or Addlestone. I learned that the smouldering pine wood