opened, though poor Henderson had sent a messenger on a bicycle to the

post office with a special wire to an evening paper.

As these folks came out by twos and threes upon the open, they found

little knots of people talking excitedly and peering at the spinning

mirror over the sand-pits, and the newcomers were, no doubt, soon

infected by the excitement of the occasion.

By half past eight, when the Deputation was destroyed, there may have

been a crowd of three hundred people or more at this place, besides

those who had left the road to approach the Martians nearer. There were

three policemen too, one of whom was mounted, doing their best, under

instructions from Stent, to keep the people back and deter them from

approaching the cylinder. There was some booing from those more

thoughtless and excitable souls to whom a crowd is always an occasion

for noise and horse-play.

Stent and Ogilvy, anticipating some possibilities of a collision, had

telegraphed from Horsell to the barracks as soon as the Martians

emerged, for the help of a company of soldiers to protect these strange

creatures from violence. After that they returned to lead that

ill-fated advance. The description of their death, as it was seen by

the crowd, tallies very closely with my own impressions: the three

puffs of green smoke, the deep humming note, and the flashes of flame.

But that crowd of people had a far narrower escape than mine. Only the

fact that a hummock of heathery sand intercepted the lower part of the

Heat-Ray saved them. Had the elevation of the parabolic mirror been a

few yards higher, none could have lived to tell the tale. They saw the

flashes and the men falling and an invisible hand, as it were, lit the

bushes as it hurried towards them through the twilight. Then, with a

whistling note that rose above the droning of the pit, the beam swung

close over their heads, lighting the tops of the beech trees that line

the road, and splitting the bricks, smashing the windows, firing the

window frames, and bringing down in crumbling ruin a portion of the

gable of the house nearest the corner.

In the sudden thud, hiss, and glare of the igniting trees, the

panic-stricken crowd seems to have swayed hesitatingly for some

moments. Sparks and burning twigs began to fall into the road, and

single leaves like puffs of flame. Hats and dresses caught fire. Then

came a crying from the common. There were shrieks and shouts, and

suddenly a mounted policeman came galloping through the confusion with

his hands clasped over his head, screaming.

“They’re coming!” a woman shrieked, and incontinently everyone was

turning and pushing at those behind, in order to clear their way to

Woking again. They must have bolted as blindly as a flock of sheep.

Where the road grows narrow and black between the high banks the crowd

jammed, and a desperate struggle occurred. All that crowd did not

escape; three persons at least, two women and a little boy, were

crushed and trampled there, and left to die amid the terror and the

darkness.

VII.

HOW I REACHED HOME.

For my own part, I remember nothing of my flight except the stress of

blundering against trees and stumbling through the heather. All about

me gathered the invisible terrors of the Martians; that pitiless sword

of heat seemed whirling to and fro, flourishing overhead before it

descended and smote me out of life. I came into the road between the

crossroads and Horsell, and ran along this to the crossroads.

At last I could go no further; I was exhausted with the violence of my

emotion and of my flight, and I staggered and fell by the wayside. That

was near the bridge that crosses the canal by the gasworks. I fell and

lay still.

I must have remained there some time.

I sat up, strangely perplexed. For a moment, perhaps, I could not

clearly understand how I came there. My terror had fallen from me like

a garment. My hat had gone, and my collar had burst away from its

fastener. A few minutes before, there had only been three real things

before me—the immensity of the night and space and nature, my own

feebleness and anguish, and the near approach of death. Now it was as

if something turned over, and the point of view altered abruptly. There

was no sensible transition from one state of mind to the other. I was

immediately the self of every day again—a decent, ordinary citizen. The

silent common, the impulse of my flight, the starting flames, were as

if they had been in a dream. I asked myself had these latter things