her bosom, with a close pressure and earnest kisses,—not so much from

overflowing love, as to assure herself that Pearl was flesh and blood,

and not utterly delusive. But Pearl’s laugh, when she was caught,

though full of merriment and music, made her mother more doubtful than

before.

Heart-smitten at this bewildering and baffling spell, that so often

came between herself and her sole treasure, whom she had bought so

dear, and who was all her world, Hester sometimes burst into

passionate tears. Then, perhaps,—for there was no foreseeing how it

might affect her,—Pearl would frown, and clench her little fist, and

harden her small features into a stern, unsympathizing look of

discontent. Not seldom, she would laugh anew, and louder than before,

like a thing incapable and unintelligent of human sorrow. Or—but this

more rarely happened—she would be convulsed with a rage of grief, and

sob out her love for her mother, in broken words, and seem intent on

proving that she had a heart, by breaking it. Yet Hester was hardly

safe in confiding herself to that gusty tenderness; it passed, as

suddenly as it came. Brooding over all these matters, the mother felt

like one who has evoked a spirit, but, by some irregularity in the

process of conjuration, has failed to win the master-word that should

control this new and incomprehensible intelligence. Her only real

comfort was when the child lay in the placidity of sleep. Then she was

sure of her, and tasted hours of quiet, sad, delicious happiness;

until—perhaps with that perverse expression glimmering from beneath

her opening lids—little Pearl awoke!

How soon—with what strange rapidity, indeed!—did Pearl arrive at an

age that was capable of social intercourse, beyond the mother’s

ever-ready smile and nonsense-words! And then what a happiness would

it have been, could Hester Prynne have heard her clear, bird-like

voice mingling with the uproar of other childish voices, and have

distinguished and unravelled her own darling’s tones, amid all the

entangled outcry of a group of sportive children! But this could never

be. Pearl was a born outcast of the infantile world. An imp of evil,

emblem and product of sin, she had no right among christened infants.

Nothing was more remarkable than the instinct, as it seemed, with

which the child comprehended her loneliness; the destiny that had

drawn an inviolable circle round about her; the whole peculiarity, in

short, of her position in respect to other children. Never, since her

release from prison, had Hester met the public gaze without her. In

all her walks about the town, Pearl, too, was there; first as the babe

in arms, and afterwards as the little girl, small companion of her

mother, holding a forefinger with her whole grasp, and tripping along

at the rate of three or four footsteps to one of Hester’s. She saw the

children of the settlement, on the grassy margin of the street, or at

the domestic thresholds, disporting themselves in such grim fashion

as the Puritanic nurture would permit; playing at going to church,

perchance; or at scourging Quakers; or taking scalps in a sham-fight

with the Indians; or scaring one another with freaks of imitative

witchcraft. Pearl saw, and gazed intently, but never sought to make

acquaintance. If spoken to, she would not speak again. If the children

gathered about her, as they sometimes did, Pearl would grow positively

terrible in her puny wrath, snatching up stones to fling at them, with

shrill, incoherent exclamations, that made her mother tremble, because

they had so much the sound of a witch’s anathemas in some unknown

tongue.

The truth was, that the little Puritans, being of the most intolerant

brood that ever lived, had got a vague idea of something outlandish,

unearthly, or at variance with ordinary fashions, in the mother and

child; and therefore scorned them in their hearts, and not

unfrequently reviled them with their tongues. Pearl felt the

sentiment, and requited it with the bitterest hatred that can be

supposed to rankle in a childish bosom. These outbreaks of a fierce

temper had a kind of value, and even comfort, for her mother; because

there was at least an intelligible earnestness in the mood, instead of

the fitful caprice that so often thwarted her in the child’s

manifestations. It appalled her, nevertheless, to discern here, again,

a shadowy reflection of the evil that had existed in herself. All this

enmity and passion had Pearl inherited, by inalienable right, out of

Hester’s heart. Mother and daughter stood together in the same circle

of seclusion from human society; and in the nature of the child seemed

to be perpetuated those unquiet elements that had distracted Hester

Prynne before Pearl’s birth, but had since begun to be soothed away by

the softening influences of maternity.

At home, within and around her mother’s cottage, Pearl wanted not a

wide and various circle of acquaintance. The spell of life went forth