The fighting was beginning. Almost immediately unseen batteries across

the river to our right, unseen because of the trees, took up the

chorus, firing heavily one after the other. A woman screamed. Everyone

stood arrested by the sudden stir of battle, near us and yet invisible

to us. Nothing was to be seen save flat meadows, cows feeding

unconcernedly for the most part, and silvery pollard willows motionless

in the warm sunlight.

“The sojers’ll stop ’em,” said a woman beside me, doubtfully. A

haziness rose over the treetops.

Then suddenly we saw a rush of smoke far away up the river, a puff of

smoke that jerked up into the air and hung; and forthwith the ground

heaved under foot and a heavy explosion shook the air, smashing two or

three windows in the houses near, and leaving us astonished.

“Here they are!” shouted a man in a blue jersey. “Yonder! D’yer see

them? Yonder!”

Quickly, one after the other, one, two, three, four of the armoured

Martians appeared, far away over the little trees, across the flat

meadows that stretched towards Chertsey, and striding hurriedly towards

the river. Little cowled figures they seemed at first, going with a

rolling motion and as fast as flying birds.

Then, advancing obliquely towards us, came a fifth. Their armoured

bodies glittered in the sun as they swept swiftly forward upon the

guns, growing rapidly larger as they drew nearer. One on the extreme

left, the remotest that is, flourished a huge case high in the air, and

the ghostly, terrible Heat-Ray I had already seen on Friday night smote

towards Chertsey, and struck the town.

At sight of these strange, swift, and terrible creatures the crowd near

the water’s edge seemed to me to be for a moment horror-struck. There

was no screaming or shouting, but a silence. Then a hoarse murmur and a

movement of feet—a splashing from the water. A man, too frightened to

drop the portmanteau he carried on his shoulder, swung round and sent

me staggering with a blow from the corner of his burden. A woman thrust

at me with her hand and rushed past me. I turned with the rush of the

people, but I was not too terrified for thought. The terrible Heat-Ray

was in my mind. To get under water! That was it!

“Get under water!” I shouted, unheeded.

I faced about again, and rushed towards the approaching Martian, rushed

right down the gravelly beach and headlong into the water. Others did

the same. A boatload of people putting back came leaping out as I

rushed past. The stones under my feet were muddy and slippery, and the

river was so low that I ran perhaps twenty feet scarcely waist-deep.

Then, as the Martian towered overhead scarcely a couple of hundred

yards away, I flung myself forward under the surface. The splashes of

the people in the boats leaping into the river sounded like

thunderclaps in my ears. People were landing hastily on both sides of

the river. But the Martian machine took no more notice for the moment

of the people running this way and that than a man would of the

confusion of ants in a nest against which his foot has kicked. When,

half suffocated, I raised my head above water, the Martian’s hood

pointed at the batteries that were still firing across the river, and

as it advanced it swung loose what must have been the generator of the

Heat-Ray.

In another moment it was on the bank, and in a stride wading halfway

across. The knees of its foremost legs bent at the farther bank, and in

another moment it had raised itself to its full height again, close to

the village of Shepperton. Forthwith the six guns which, unknown to

anyone on the right bank, had been hidden behind the outskirts of that

village, fired simultaneously. The sudden near concussion, the last

close upon the first, made my heart jump. The monster was already

raising the case generating the Heat-Ray as the first shell burst six

yards above the hood.

I gave a cry of astonishment. I saw and thought nothing of the other

four Martian monsters; my attention was riveted upon the nearer

incident. Simultaneously two other shells burst in the air near the

body as the hood twisted round in time to receive, but not in time to

dodge, the fourth shell.