help him."

At this the giant grinned at his rival.

"At the same time," went on Tom, winking an eye at Mr. Damon,

"Eradicate knows a little more about garden work, on account of having

done it so many years."

"Ha! Whut I tell yo', Giant!" boasted the colored man. It was his turn

to smile.

"And so," went on Tom, judicially, "I guess I'll let Rad finish spading

the garden, and you, Koku, can come and help me lift some heavy engine

parts. Mr. Damon wants to explain something to me."

"Ha! Nothing what so heavy Koku not lift!" boasted the giant.

"Go on! Lift yo'se'f 'way from heah!" muttered Eradicate as he picked

up his dropped spade. And then, with a smile of satisfaction, he fell

to work in the mellow soil while Tom led Koku to one of the shops where

he set him to lifting heavy motor parts about in order to get at a

certain machine that was stored away in the back of one of the rooms.

"That will keep him busy," said the young inventor. "And now, Mr.

Damon, I can listen to you. Do you really think you have a new idea in

airships?"

"I really think so, Tom. My Whizzer is bound to revolutionize travel in

the air. Let me tell you what I mean. Now cast your mind back. How many

ways are now used to propel an airship or a dirigible balloon through

the air? How many ways?"

"Two, as far as I know," said Tom. "At least there are only two that

have proved to be practical."

"Exactly," said Mr. Damon. "One with the propeller, or propellers, in

front, and that is the tractor type. The other has the propeller in the

rear, and that is the pusher type. Both good as far as they go, but I

have something better."

"What?" asked Tom with a smile.

"It's a Whizzer," said the eccentric man. "Bless my gold tooth! but

that is the best name I can think of for it. And, really, the propeller

I'm thinking of inventing does whiz around."

"But are you going to use a tractor or pusher type?" Tom wanted to know.

"It's a combination of both," answered Mr. Damon. "As it is now, Tom,

you have to get an aeroplane in pretty speedy motion before it will

rise from the ground, don't you?"

"Yes, of course. That's the principle on which an aeroplane rises and

keeps aloft, by its speed in the air. As soon as that speed stops it

begins to fall, or volplane, as we call it."

"Exactly. Now, instead of having to depend on the speed of the

aeroplane for this, why not depend on the speed of the propeller--in

other words, the whizzer?"

"Well, we do," said Tom, a bit puzzled as to what his friend was trying

to get at. "If the propeller didn't move the airship wouldn't

rise--that is, unless it's of the balloon type."

"What I mean," said Mr. Damon, "is to have an aeroplane that will move

in the air the same as a boat moves in the water. You don't have to get

the propeller of a boat racing around at the rate of a million

revolutions a minute, more or less, before your boat will travel, do

you? If the engine turns the screw, or propeller, just over say fifty

times a minute you would get some motion of the boat, wouldn't you?"

"Why, yes, some," admitted Tom.

"And what causes it?" asked Mr. Damon, anticipating a triumph.

"The resistance of the water to the blades of the screw, or propeller,"

answered Tom.

"Exactly! And it's the resistance of the air to the blades of an

airship propeller that sends the craft along, isn't it?"

"Yes. And because of the difference in density between air and water it

becomes necessary to revolve an aeroplane propeller many times faster

than a boat propeller. It's the density that makes the difference, Mr.

Damon. If air were as dense as water we could have comparatively