 * * * * *

I must have slept long and soundly, for it was broad daylight when Van

Helsing waked me by coming into my room. He came over to my bedside and

said:--

“You need not trouble about the knives; we shall not do it.”

“Why not?” I asked. For his solemnity of the night before had greatly

impressed me.

“Because,” he said sternly, “it is too late--or too early. See!” Here he

held up the little golden crucifix. “This was stolen in the night.”

“How, stolen,” I asked in wonder, “since you have it now?”

“Because I get it back from the worthless wretch who stole it, from the

woman who robbed the dead and the living. Her punishment will surely

come, but not through me; she knew not altogether what she did and thus

unknowing, she only stole. Now we must wait.”

He went away on the word, leaving me with a new mystery to think of, a

new puzzle to grapple with.

The forenoon was a dreary time, but at noon the solicitor came: Mr.

Marquand, of Wholeman, Sons, Marquand & Lidderdale. He was very genial

and very appreciative of what we had done, and took off our hands all

cares as to details. During lunch he told us that Mrs. Westenra had for

some time expected sudden death from her heart, and had put her affairs

in absolute order; he informed us that, with the exception of a certain

entailed property of Lucy’s father’s which now, in default of direct

issue, went back to a distant branch of the family, the whole estate,

real and personal, was left absolutely to Arthur Holmwood. When he had

told us so much he went on:--

“Frankly we did our best to prevent such a testamentary disposition, and

pointed out certain contingencies that might leave her daughter either

penniless or not so free as she should be to act regarding a matrimonial

alliance. Indeed, we pressed the matter so far that we almost came into

collision, for she asked us if we were or were not prepared to carry out

her wishes. Of course, we had then no alternative but to accept. We were

right in principle, and ninety-nine times out of a hundred we should

have proved, by the logic of events, the accuracy of our judgment.

Frankly, however, I must admit that in this case any other form of

disposition would have rendered impossible the carrying out of her

wishes. For by her predeceasing her daughter the latter would have come

into possession of the property, and, even had she only survived her

mother by five minutes, her property would, in case there were no

will--and a will was a practical impossibility in such a case--have been

treated at her decease as under intestacy. In which case Lord Godalming,

though so dear a friend, would have had no claim in the world; and the

inheritors, being remote, would not be likely to abandon their just

rights, for sentimental reasons regarding an entire stranger. I assure

you, my dear sirs, I am rejoiced at the result, perfectly rejoiced.”

He was a good fellow, but his rejoicing at the one little part--in which

he was officially interested--of so great a tragedy, was an

object-lesson in the limitations of sympathetic understanding.

He did not remain long, but said he would look in later in the day and

see Lord Godalming. His coming, however, had been a certain comfort to

us, since it assured us that we should not have to dread hostile

criticism as to any of our acts. Arthur was expected at five o’clock, so

a little before that time we visited the death-chamber. It was so in

very truth, for now both mother and daughter lay in it. The undertaker,

true to his craft, had made the best display he could of his goods, and

there was a mortuary air about the place that lowered our spirits at

once. Van Helsing ordered the former arrangement to be adhered to,

explaining that, as Lord Godalming was coming very soon, it would be

less harrowing to his feelings to see all that was left of his _fiancée_

quite alone. The undertaker seemed shocked at his own stupidity and

exerted himself to restore things to the condition in which we left them

the night before, so that when Arthur came such shocks to his feelings

as we could avoid were saved.

Poor fellow! He looked desperately sad and broken; even his stalwart

manhood seemed to have shrunk somewhat under the strain of his

much-tried emotions. He had, I knew, been very genuinely and devotedly

attached to his father; and to lose him, and at such a time, was a

bitter blow to him. With me he was warm as ever, and to Van Helsing he

was sweetly courteous; but I could not help seeing that there was some

constraint with him. The Professor noticed it, too, and motioned me to

bring him upstairs. I did so, and left him at the door of the room, as I

felt he would like to be quite alone with her, but he took my arm and

led me in, saying huskily:--