through every walk and cross walk, and scarcely allowing them an

interval to utter the praises he asked for, every view was pointed out

with a minuteness which left beauty entirely behind. He could number the

fields in every direction, and could tell how many trees there were in

the most distant clump. But of all the views which his garden, or which

the country or the kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with

the prospect of Rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that

bordered the park nearly opposite the front of his house. It was a

handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground.

From his garden, Mr. Collins would have led them round his two meadows;

but the ladies, not having shoes to encounter the remains of a white

frost, turned back; and while Sir William accompanied him, Charlotte

took her sister and friend over the house, extremely well pleased,

probably, to have the opportunity of showing it without her husband’s

help. It was rather small, but well built and convenient; and everything

was fitted up and arranged with a neatness and consistency, of which

Elizabeth gave Charlotte all the credit. When Mr. Collins could be

forgotten, there was really a great air of comfort throughout, and by

Charlotte’s evident enjoyment of it, Elizabeth supposed he must be often

forgotten.

She had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the country. It

was spoken of again while they were at dinner, when Mr. Collins joining

in, observed,--

“Yes, Miss Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady Catherine

de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need not say you will

be delighted with her. She is all affability and condescension, and I

doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of her notice when

service is over. I have scarcely any hesitation in saying that she will

include you and my sister Maria in every invitation with which she

honours us during your stay here. Her behaviour to my dear Charlotte is

charming. We dine at Rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to

walk home. Her Ladyship’s carriage is regularly ordered for us. I

_should_ say, one of her Ladyship’s carriages, for she has several.”

“Lady Catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman, indeed,” added

Charlotte, “and a most attentive neighbour.”

“Very true, my dear, that is exactly what I say. She is the sort of

woman whom one cannot regard with too much deference.”

The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news, and

telling again what had been already written; and when it closed,

Elizabeth, in the solitude of her chamber, had to meditate upon

Charlotte’s degree of contentment, to understand her address in guiding,

and composure in bearing with, her husband, and to acknowledge that it

was all done very well. She had also to anticipate how her visit would

pass, the quiet tenour of their usual employments, the vexatious

interruptions of Mr. Collins, and the gaieties of their intercourse

with Rosings. A lively imagination soon settled it all.

About the middle of the next day, as she was in her room getting ready

for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in

confusion; and, after listening a moment, she heard somebody running

upstairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly after her. She opened

the door, and met Maria in the landing-place, who, breathless with

agitation, cried out,--

[Illustration:

 “In Conversation with the ladies”

[Copyright 1894 by George Allen.]]

“Oh, my dear Eliza! pray make haste and come into the dining-room, for

there is such a sight to be seen! I will not tell you what it is. Make

haste, and come down this moment.”

Elizabeth asked questions in vain; Maria would tell her nothing more;

and down they ran into the dining-room which fronted the lane, in quest

of this wonder; it was two ladies, stopping in a low phaeton at the

garden gate.

“And is this all?” cried Elizabeth. “I expected at least that the pigs

were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady Catherine and her

daughter!”

“La! my dear,” said Maria, quite shocked at the mistake, “it is not Lady

Catherine. The old lady is Mrs. Jenkinson, who lives with them. The

other is Miss De Bourgh. Only look at her. She is quite a little

creature. Who would have thought she could be so thin and small!”

“She is abominably rude to keep Charlotte out of doors in all this wind.

Why does she not come in?”

“Oh, Charlotte says she hardly ever does. It is the greatest of favours