because of some sort of engine trouble or because my new attachment

doesn't work right, we sha'n't have any prying eyes."

"I see! Well, Tom, I'll go with you. Fortunately I didn't tell my wife

where I was going when I started out this afternoon, so she won't worry

until after it's over, and then it won't hurt her. I'm ready any time

you are."

"Good! Stay to dinner and I'll show you what I've made. Then we'll take

a flight after dark."

This suited the eccentric man, and a little later, after he had eaten

one of Mrs. Baggert's best meals, including rice pudding, of which he

was very fond, Mr. Damon accompanied Tom to one of the big hangars

where the new aeroplane had been set up.

"So that's the Air Scout, is it, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon, as he viewed

the machine.

"Yes, that's the girl. 'Air Scout' is as good a name as any, until I

see what she'll do."

"It doesn't look different from one of your regular craft of the skies,

Tom."

"No, she isn't. The main difference is here," and Tom showed his friend

where a peculiar apparatus had been attached to the motor. This was the

silencer--the whole secret of the invention, so to speak.

To Mr. Damon it seemed to consist of an amazing collection of pipes,

valves, baffle-plates, chambers, cylinders and reducers, which took the

hot exhaust gases as they came from the motor and "ate them up," as he

expressed it.

"The cylinders, too, and the spark plugs are differently arranged in

the motor itself, if you could see them," said Tom to his friend. "But

the main work of cutting down the noise is done right here," and he put

his hand on the steel case attached to the motor, the case containing

the apparatus already briefly described.

"Well, I'm ready when you are, Tom," said Mr. Damon.

"We'll go as soon as it's dark," was the reply. "But first I'll give

you a demonstration. Start the motor, Jackson!" Tom called to his chief

helper.

Mr. Damon had ridden in aeroplanes before, and had stood near when Tom

started them; so he was prepared for a great rush of air as the

propellers whirled about, and for deafening explosions from the engine.

The big blades, of new construction, were turned until the gas in the

cylinders was sufficiently compressed. Then Jackson stepped back out of

danger while Tom threw over the switch.

"Contact!" cried the young inventor.

Jackson gave the blades a quarter pull, and, a moment later, as he

leaped back out of the way, they began to revolve with the swiftness of

light. There was the familiar rush of air as the wooden wings cut

through the atmosphere, but there was scarcely any noise. Mr. Damon

could hardly believe his ears.

"I'm not running her at full speed," said Tom. "If I did she'd tear

loose from the holding blocks. But you can see what little racket she

makes."

"Bless my fountain pen!" cried Mr. Damon. "You are right, Tom Swift!

Why, I can hear you talk almost as easily as if no engine were going.

And I don't have to shout my head off, either."

This was perfectly true. Tom could converse with Mr. Damon in almost

ordinary tones. The exhaust from the motor was nearly completely

muffled.

"Out in the air it will seem even more quiet," said Tom. "I'll soon

give you a chance to verify that statement."

He ran the engine a little longer, the aeroplane quivering with the

vibrations, but remaining almost silent.

"I'm anxious to see what she'll do when in motion," said Tom, as he

shut off the gas and spark.

Soon after supper, when the shades of evening were falling, he and Mr.

Damon took their places in the first of the Air Scouts, to give it the

preliminary test in actual flying.

Would Tom's hopes be justified or would he be disappointed?

CHAPTER XII

THE CRY FOR HELP

"All ready, Mr. Damon?" asked Tom, as he looked to see that all the

levers, wheels, valves, and other controls were in working order on his

Air Scout.

"As ready as I ever shall be, Tom," was the answer. "I don't know why

it is, but somehow I feel that something is going to happen on this