Toade as see him: I anger her sometimes, and tell her that

Paris is the properer man, but Ile warrant you, when I say

so, shee lookes as pale as any clout in the versall world.

Doth not Rosemarie and Romeo begin both with a letter?

 Rom. I Nurse, what of that? Both with an R

 Nur. A mocker that's the dogs name. R. is for the no,

I know it begins with some other letter, and she hath the

prettiest sententious of it, of you and Rosemary, that it

would do you good to heare it

 Rom. Commend me to thy Lady

 Nur. I a thousand times. Peter?

 Pet. Anon

 Nur. Before and apace.

Exit Nurse and Peter.

Enter Iuliet.

 Iul. The clocke strook nine, when I did send the Nurse,

In halfe an houre she promised to returne,

Perchance she cannot meete him: that's not so:

Oh she is lame, Loues Herauld should be thoughts,

Which ten times faster glides then the Sunnes beames,

Driuing backe shadowes ouer lowring hils.

Therefore do nimble Pinion'd Doues draw Loue,

And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings:

Now is the Sun vpon the highmost hill

Of this daies iourney, and from nine till twelue,

Is three long houres, yet she is not come.

Had she affections and warme youthfull blood,

She would be as swift in motion as a ball,

My words would bandy her to my sweete Loue,

And his to me, but old folkes,

Many faine as they were dead,

Vnwieldie, slow, heauy, and pale as lead.

Enter Nurse.

O God she comes, O hony Nurse what newes?

Hast thou met with him? send thy man away

 Nur. Peter stay at the gate

 Iul. Now good sweet Nurse:

O Lord, why lookest thou sad?

Though newes, be sad, yet tell them merrily.

If good thou sham'st the musicke of sweet newes,

By playing it to me, with so sower a face

 Nur. I am a weary, giue me leaue awhile,

Fie how my bones ake, what a iaunt haue I had?

 Iul. I would thou had'st my bones, and I thy newes:

Nay come I pray thee speake, good good Nurse speake

 Nur. Iesu what hast? can you not stay a while?

Do you not see that I am out of breath?

 Iul. How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breth

To say to me, that thou art out of breath?

The excuse that thou dost make in this delay,

Is longer then the tale thou dost excuse.

Is thy newes good or bad? answere to that,

Say either, and Ile stay the circumstance:

Let me be satisfied, ist good or bad?

 Nur. Well, you haue made a simple choice, you know

not how to chuse a man: Romeo, no not he though his face

be better then any mans, yet his legs excels all mens, and

for a hand, and a foote, and a body, though they be not to

be talkt on, yet they are past compare: he is not the flower

of curtesie, but Ile warrant him as gentle a Lambe: go thy

waies wench, serue God. What haue you din'd at home?

 Iul. No no: but all this did I know before

What saies he of our marriage? what of that?

 Nur. Lord how my head akes, what a head haue I?

It beates as it would fall in twenty peeces.

My backe a tother side: o my backe, my backe:

Beshrew your heart for sending me about

To catch my death with iaunting vp and downe

 Iul. Ifaith: I am sorrie that thou art so well.

Sweet sweet, sweet Nurse, tell me what saies my Loue?

 Nur. Your Loue saies like an honest Gentleman,

And a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome,

And I warrant a vertuous: where is your Mother?