"Do they know you are working on such a model as this Silent Sam of

yours, Tom?"

"Yes, I imagine they do. One of the firm members, as you recall,

overheard something, I think, that gave them a hint as to what my plans

were, though, thanks to the time I fooled the spy, they haven't any

real data to go by, I believe."

"Let us hope not," said Mr. Damon.

Tom and he made a thorough search of the big shed, but found no one,

nor was there any trace of an intruder. Tom notified Jackson, who, in

turn, told the guards and watchmen to be on the lookout for any

suspicious strangers, but none was seen in the vicinity of the Swift

works.

"Well, everything seems to be all right, so we'll have the test,"

remarked Tom, after a further search of the premises. "Now, Mr.

Damon, if all goes as I hope you will see what my new machine can do.

Strain your ears for a sound, and let me know how much you hear."

His men helping him, Tom started the new motor which was tried for the

first time attached to the new craft. No flight was to be made yet, the

motor being tested as though on the block, though, in reality, the

craft was ready for instant flight if need be.

Slowly the great propellers began to revolve, and then Tom, taking his

place in the cockpit, turned on more power. The new craft--Silent

Sam--was made fast so it could not progress even though the propellers

revolved at high speed.

"I'm not sending her to the limit," said Tom to his friend, as the

young inventor throttled down the motor. "If I did I'd tear her loose

from the holding blocks."

"Her!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my typewriter, Tom! but I thought Silent

Sam was a gentleman aeroplane.

"So he is!" laughed the young man, frankly. "I forgot about 'Silent

Sam.' Guess I'll have to say 'him' instead of 'her,' though the latter

sounds more natural. Anyhow what do you think?"

"I think it's wonderful!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "There the motor is,

going at almost full speed, and I can hardly hear a thing. You can the

easier believe that when I say that I can hear you talk perfectly well.

And I guess you hear me, don't you?"

"Yes," replied Tom. "And we don't have to shout, either. This is the

best test ever! I think everything is a success."

"Are you going to take her aloft, Tom?" the eccentric man went on.

"Yes, now that I'm sure the engine is all right. Will you go for a

flight with me?"

"I certainly will! I only wish we could find him, though. I'd go with a

better heart."

"Oh! Mr. Nestor?"

"Yes, I can't imagine what has become of him. It is almost as if the

earth had opened and swallowed him. His disappearance is a great

mystery."

"It surely is," agreed Tom. "Can't seem to get any trace of him. But if

we hear another cry for help, when we have to land, you can make up

your mind I'll investigate more quickly than I did at first."

"I agree with you," said Mr. Damon.

It was nearly evening then, and until it was dark enough for his flight

Tom spent the time tuning up the engine and seeing that all was in

readiness for the latest test. He had decided not to go aloft while it

was light enough for curiosity seekers to note the flight.

Tom rather wished Mary Nestor might have a sail with him in his latest

improved silent Air Scout, but the girl was too much occupied at home

and in trying to find some trace of her father.

Tom, his father, and Mr. Damon had helped all they could, but there

were no results. A private detective had been engaged, but he had no

more of a clew than the regular police.

At last it was dark enough for the flight, and Tom and Mr. Damon took

their places in the machine. Once more the propellers were turned

around, and when the compression had been made, and the spark switched

on, around spun the big wooden blades, and the great craft moved over

the grass.

On and on and up and up sailed Tom and Mr. Damon, and as they left