"I hope it doesn't turn out a joke," replied Tom. "But come on, I'll

introduce you to him, Mr. Damon."

He led the way to one of the big hangars where his various machines of

the air were housed. On the way Mr. Damon asked about news of Mr.

Nestor, but was told there was none.

Tom Swift opened the big, swinging doors and pulled aside an enveloping

canvas curtain. There stood revealed a big aeroplane, of somewhat new

pattern, the wings gleaming like silver from the varnish that had been

applied. In shape it was not unlike the machines already in use, except

that the propellers were of somewhat different design.

The engine was mounted in front, and even with his slight knowledge of

mechanics Mr. Damon could tell that it was exceedingly powerful. But it

was certain devices attached to the engine that attracted his

attention, for they were totally different from any on any other

aeroplane, though they bore some resemblance to apparatus on the plane

in which Tom and the eccentric man had made the night flight.

"Is this your new machine, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Yes."

"Well, I don't see anything of that fellow you spoke of--Silent Sam."

"This is Silent Sam," returned Tom, with a laugh. "I've named my new

noiseless aeroplane--my Air Scout--I've named that Silent Sam. Wait

until you hear it, or rather, don't hear it, and I think you'll agree

with me. Silent Sam for Uncle Sam!"

"Good!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my dictionary, but that's a good name!

Does it sail silently, Tom?"

"I'll let you judge presently. Silent Sam is all ready for his first

trial, and I'll be glad to have you with me. Now, I'll just--"

Tom suddenly ceased speaking and held up a hand to enjoin silence.

Then, while Mr. Damon watched, the young inventor began moving

noiselessly toward the rear of the big shed, inside which was his new

machine.

CHAPTER XVIII

SUSPICIONS

"Who's there?" suddenly called Tom, and in such a sharp voice that Mr.

Damon started, ready as he was for something unusual.

There was no answer and Tom suddenly switched on all the lights in the

shed. Up to then there had been only a few glowing--just enough for him

to show the new Air Scout to his friend.

"Who's there?" asked Tom again, sharply.

"Bless my opera glasses, Tom!" cried Mr. Damon, "but are you seeing

things?"

"No; but I'm hearing them," answered Tom with a short laugh. "Did you

think you heard some one moving around near the rudders of Silent Sam,

Mr. Damon?"

"No, I can't say that I did. Everything seems to me to be all right."

"Well, it doesn't to me," went on Tom grimly. "I think there is an

intruder in this shed, though how any one could get in when the doors

have been locked all day, is more than I can figure out. But I'm going

to have a look."

"I'll help you," offered Mr. Damon, and, in the bright glare from many

electric lights, the two began a search of the big hangar where the new

craft was kept.

But though the young inventor and his friend went around to the rear of

the aeroplane, walking in opposite directions, they saw no one, nor did

any one try to escape past them.

"And yet I was sure I heard some one in here," declared Tom, when a

search had revealed nothing. "It sounded as if some one were scuffling

softly about in rubber-soled shoes, trying to hide."

"Bless my suspenders!" cried Mr. Damon, "who do you think it could have

been, Tom?"

"Who else but some spy trying to get possession of my secrets?" was the

answer. "But I guess I was too quick for them. They couldn't learn much

from looking at the outside of my muffler, and it hasn't been

disturbed, as far as I can see."

"Who would want to gain a knowledge of it in that unlawful way?" asked

Mr. Damon.

"Perhaps some of the Universal crowd. They may have been disappointed

in perfecting a silent motor themselves, and think stealing my idea

would be the easiest way out of it."