you draw?”

“No, not at all.”

“What, none of you?”

“Not one.”

“That is very strange. But I suppose you had no opportunity. Your mother

should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of masters.”

“My mother would have no objection, but my father hates London.”

“Has your governess left you?”

“We never had any governess.”

“No governess! How was that possible? Five daughters brought up at home

without a governess! I never heard of such a thing. Your mother must

have been quite a slave to your education.”

Elizabeth could hardly help smiling, as she assured her that had not

been the case.

“Then who taught you? who attended to you? Without a governess, you must

have been neglected.”

“Compared with some families, I believe we were; but such of us as

wished to learn never wanted the means. We were always encouraged to

read, and had all the masters that were necessary. Those who chose to be

idle certainly might.”

“Ay, no doubt: but that is what a governess will prevent; and if I had

known your mother, I should have advised her most strenuously to engage

one. I always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady

and regular instruction, and nobody but a governess can give it. It is

wonderful how many families I have been the means of supplying in that

way. I am always glad to get a young person well placed out. Four nieces

of Mrs. Jenkinson are most delightfully situated through my means; and

it was but the other day that I recommended another young person, who

was merely accidentally mentioned to me, and the family are quite

delighted with her. Mrs. Collins, did I tell you of Lady Metcalfe’s

calling yesterday to thank me? She finds Miss Pope a treasure. ‘Lady

Catherine,’ said she, ‘you have given me a treasure.’ Are any of your

younger sisters out, Miss Bennet?”

“Yes, ma’am, all.”

“All! What, all five out at once? Very odd! And you only the second. The

younger ones out before the elder are married! Your younger sisters must

be very young?”

“Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. Perhaps _she_ is full young to be much

in company. But really, ma’am, I think it would be very hard upon

younger sisters that they should not have their share of society and

amusement, because the elder may not have the means or inclination to

marry early. The last born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth

as the first. And to be kept back on _such_ a motive! I think it would

not be very likely to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of mind.”

“Upon my word,” said her Ladyship, “you give your opinion very decidedly

for so young a person. Pray, what is your age?”

“With three younger sisters grown up,” replied Elizabeth, smiling, “your

Ladyship can hardly expect me to own it.”

Lady Catherine seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct answer;

and Elizabeth suspected herself to be the first creature who had ever

dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence.

“You cannot be more than twenty, I am sure,--therefore you need not

conceal your age.”

“I am not one-and-twenty.”

When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the card tables

were placed. Lady Catherine, Sir William, and Mr. and Mrs. Collins sat

down to quadrille; and as Miss De Bourgh chose to play at cassino, the

two girls had the honour of assisting Mrs. Jenkinson to make up her

party. Their table was superlatively stupid. Scarcely a syllable was

uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Mrs. Jenkinson

expressed her fears of Miss De Bourgh’s being too hot or too cold, or

having too much or too little light. A great deal more passed at the

other table. Lady Catherine was generally speaking--stating the mistakes

of the three others, or relating some anecdote of herself. Mr. Collins

was employed in agreeing to everything her Ladyship said, thanking her