missing man. I must tell Mary and her mother, and help them all I can."

"And allow me to help, too," begged Mr. Terrill. "Since this affects

you, Mr. Swift, and since you are, in a way, working for Uncle Sam, you

must let him help you. This is the first I have heard of the missing

gentleman, of whom your father just told me something, but you must

allow me to help search for him. I will get the United States Secret

Service at work."

"That will be fine!" cried Tom. "I wanted to get their aid, but I

didn't see how I could, as I knew they were too busy with army matters

and tracing seditious alien enemies, to bother with private cases. I'm

sure the Secret Service men can get trace of the persons responsible

for the detention of Mr. Nestor, wherever he is."

"They'll do their best," said Mr. Terrill. "I'm a member of that body,"

he went on, "and I'll give my personal attention to the matter."

Then followed a busy time. Tom did not get to bed until nearly morning.

For he had to arrange to send some of his men to guard the stranded

airship, and then he went to see Mary and her mother, taking them the

good news that the search for Mr. Nestor would be prosecuted with

unprecedented vigor.

"If it isn't too late!" sadly said the missing man's wife.

"Oh, I'm sure it isn't!" declared Tom.

In addition to sending a guard to the airship, other men, some of them

hastily summoned from the nearest federal agency, were sent to keep

watch in the vicinity of the lonely cabin. They had orders to arrest

whoever approached, and a relay of the men was provided, so that watch

could be kept up night and day. Besides this, other men from the Secret

Service began scouring the country around the locality of the cabin,

seeking a trace of the two persons the farmer's son had seen in the

automobile.

"If Mr. Nestor is to be found, they'll find him!" declared Tom Swift.

Mr. Damon, as might be expected, was very much excited and wrought up

over all these happenings.

"Bless my watch chain, Tom Swift!" cried the eccentric man, "but

something is always happening to you. And to think I wasn't along when

this latest happened!"

"Well, you can be in at the finish," promised Tom, and it was strange

how his promise was fulfilled.

Meanwhile there was much to do. During the time the Secret Service men

were busy looking up clews which might lead to the finding of Mr.

Nestor and keeping watch in the vicinity of the hut, Tom had his

airship brought back to the hangar, and a new silencer was attached.

While this work was going on the place was guarded night and day by

responsible men, so there was no chance for an enemy spy to get in and

do further damage.

An investigation was made of the Universal Flying Machine Company, but

nothing could be proved to link them with the outrage. Gale and Ware

were in Europe--ostensibly on government business, but it was said that

if anything could be proved connecting them with the attempt made on

Tom Swift's craft, they would be deprived of all official contracts and

punished.

All this took time, and the waits were wearisome, particularly in the

case of Mr. Nestor. No further trace of him was found, though every

effort was made. Tom began to feel that his boast of his enemies having

to get up early in the morning to get ahead of him, had been premature,

to say the least.

Tom Swift worked hard on his new Air Scout. He determined there would

be nothing lacking when it came to the government test, and not only

did he make sure that no enemy could tamper with his machine, but he

took pains to see that no inherent defect would mar the test.

Jackson and the other men helped to the best of their ability, and Mr.

Swift suggested some improvements which were incorporated in the new

machine.

One of the puzzles the Secret Service men had to solve was that of the

connection, if any, between the men who had to do with the missing Mr.

Nestor and those who had damaged Tom's airship by filing the muffler

case so it was weakened and burst. That there was some connection Tom

was certain, but he could not work it out, nor, so far, had the

government men.

At last the day came when the big government test was to be made. Tom

had completed his Air Scout and had refined it to a point where even

his critical judgment was satisfied. All that remained now was to give

Mr. Terrill a chance to see how silently the big craft could fly, and

to this end a flight was arranged.

Tom had put the silencer on a larger machine than the one he and