still stood, dismal grey stems, with dark brown foliage instead of

green.

On our side the fire had done no more than scorch the nearer trees; it

had failed to secure its footing. In one place the woodmen had been at

work on Saturday; trees, felled and freshly trimmed, lay in a clearing,

with heaps of sawdust by the sawing-machine and its engine. Hard by was

a temporary hut, deserted. There was not a breath of wind this morning,

and everything was strangely still. Even the birds were hushed, and as

we hurried along I and the artilleryman talked in whispers and looked

now and again over our shoulders. Once or twice we stopped to listen.

After a time we drew near the road, and as we did so we heard the

clatter of hoofs and saw through the tree stems three cavalry soldiers

riding slowly towards Woking. We hailed them, and they halted while we

hurried towards them. It was a lieutenant and a couple of privates of

the 8th Hussars, with a stand like a theodolite, which the artilleryman

told me was a heliograph.

“You are the first men I’ve seen coming this way this morning,” said

the lieutenant. “What’s brewing?”

His voice and face were eager. The men behind him stared curiously. The

artilleryman jumped down the bank into the road and saluted.

“Gun destroyed last night, sir. Have been hiding. Trying to rejoin

battery, sir. You’ll come in sight of the Martians, I expect, about

half a mile along this road.”

“What the dickens are they like?” asked the lieutenant.

“Giants in armour, sir. Hundred feet high. Three legs and a body like

’luminium, with a mighty great head in a hood, sir.”

“Get out!” said the lieutenant. “What confounded nonsense!”

“You’ll see, sir. They carry a kind of box, sir, that shoots fire and

strikes you dead.”

“What d’ye mean—a gun?”

“No, sir,” and the artilleryman began a vivid account of the Heat-Ray.

Halfway through, the lieutenant interrupted him and looked up at me. I

was still standing on the bank by the side of the road.

“It’s perfectly true,” I said.

“Well,” said the lieutenant, “I suppose it’s my business to see it too.

Look here”—to the artilleryman—“we’re detailed here clearing people out

of their houses. You’d better go along and report yourself to

Brigadier-General Marvin, and tell him all you know. He’s at Weybridge.

Know the way?”

“I do,” I said; and he turned his horse southward again.

“Half a mile, you say?” said he.

“At most,” I answered, and pointed over the treetops southward. He

thanked me and rode on, and we saw them no more.

Farther along we came upon a group of three women and two children in

the road, busy clearing out a labourer’s cottage. They had got hold of

a little hand truck, and were piling it up with unclean-looking bundles

and shabby furniture. They were all too assiduously engaged to talk to

us as we passed.

By Byfleet station we emerged from the pine trees, and found the

country calm and peaceful under the morning sunlight. We were far

beyond the range of the Heat-Ray there, and had it not been for the

silent desertion of some of the houses, the stirring movement of

packing in others, and the knot of soldiers standing on the bridge over

the railway and staring down the line towards Woking, the day would

have seemed very like any other Sunday.

Several farm waggons and carts were moving creakily along the road to

Addlestone, and suddenly through the gate of a field we saw, across a

stretch of flat meadow, six twelve-pounders standing neatly at equal

distances pointing towards Woking. The gunners stood by the guns

waiting, and the ammunition waggons were at a business-like distance.

The men stood almost as if under inspection.

“That’s good!” said I. “They will get one fair shot, at any rate.”

The artilleryman hesitated at the gate.

“I shall go on,” he said.

Farther on towards Weybridge, just over the bridge, there were a number

of men in white fatigue jackets throwing up a long rampart, and more

guns behind.

“It’s bows and arrows against the lightning, anyhow,” said the

artilleryman. “They ’aven’t seen that fire-beam yet.”

The officers who were not actively engaged stood and stared over the

treetops southwestward, and the men digging would stop every now and

again to stare in the same direction.