through the iron of the ship’s side like a white-hot iron rod through

paper.

A flicker of flame went up through the rising steam, and then the

Martian reeled and staggered. In another moment he was cut down, and a

great body of water and steam shot high in the air. The guns of the

_Thunder Child_ sounded through the reek, going off one after the

other, and one shot splashed the water high close by the steamer,

ricocheted towards the other flying ships to the north, and smashed a

smack to matchwood.

But no one heeded that very much. At the sight of the Martian’s

collapse the captain on the bridge yelled inarticulately, and all the

crowding passengers on the steamer’s stern shouted together. And then

they yelled again. For, surging out beyond the white tumult, drove

something long and black, the flames streaming from its middle parts,

its ventilators and funnels spouting fire.

She was alive still; the steering gear, it seems, was intact and her

engines working. She headed straight for a second Martian, and was

within a hundred yards of him when the Heat-Ray came to bear. Then with

a violent thud, a blinding flash, her decks, her funnels, leaped

upward. The Martian staggered with the violence of her explosion, and

in another moment the flaming wreckage, still driving forward with the

impetus of its pace, had struck him and crumpled him up like a thing of

cardboard. My brother shouted involuntarily. A boiling tumult of steam

hid everything again.

“Two!” yelled the captain.

Everyone was shouting. The whole steamer from end to end rang with

frantic cheering that was taken up first by one and then by all in the

crowding multitude of ships and boats that was driving out to sea.

The steam hung upon the water for many minutes, hiding the third

Martian and the coast altogether. And all this time the boat was

paddling steadily out to sea and away from the fight; and when at last

the confusion cleared, the drifting bank of black vapour intervened,

and nothing of the _Thunder Child_ could be made out, nor could the

third Martian be seen. But the ironclads to seaward were now quite

close and standing in towards shore past the steamboat.

The little vessel continued to beat its way seaward, and the ironclads

receded slowly towards the coast, which was hidden still by a marbled

bank of vapour, part steam, part black gas, eddying and combining in

the strangest way. The fleet of refugees was scattering to the

northeast; several smacks were sailing between the ironclads and the

steamboat. After a time, and before they reached the sinking cloud

bank, the warships turned northward, and then abruptly went about and

passed into the thickening haze of evening southward. The coast grew

faint, and at last indistinguishable amid the low banks of clouds that

were gathering about the sinking sun.

Then suddenly out of the golden haze of the sunset came the vibration

of guns, and a form of black shadows moving. Everyone struggled to the

rail of the steamer and peered into the blinding furnace of the west,

but nothing was to be distinguished clearly. A mass of smoke rose

slanting and barred the face of the sun. The steamboat throbbed on its

way through an interminable suspense.

The sun sank into grey clouds, the sky flushed and darkened, the

evening star trembled into sight. It was deep twilight when the captain

cried out and pointed. My brother strained his eyes. Something rushed

up into the sky out of the greyness—rushed slantingly upward and very

swiftly into the luminous clearness above the clouds in the western

sky; something flat and broad, and very large, that swept round in a

vast curve, grew smaller, sank slowly, and vanished again into the grey

mystery of the night. And as it flew it rained down darkness upon the

land.

BOOK TWO

THE EARTH UNDER THE MARTIANS.

I.

UNDER FOOT.

In the first book I have wandered so much from my own adventures to

tell of the experiences of my brother that all through the last two

chapters I and the curate have been lurking in the empty house at

Halliford whither we fled to escape the Black Smoke. There I will

resume. We stopped there all Sunday night and all the next day—the day

of the panic—in a little island of daylight, cut off by the Black Smoke

from the rest of the world. We could do nothing but wait in aching

inactivity during those two weary days.