“You do not want to go to sleep?”

“No; I am afraid.”

“Afraid to go to sleep! Why so? It is the boon we all crave for.”

“Ah, not if you were like me--if sleep was to you a presage of horror!”

“A presage of horror! What on earth do you mean?”

“I don’t know; oh, I don’t know. And that is what is so terrible. All

this weakness comes to me in sleep; until I dread the very thought.”

“But, my dear girl, you may sleep to-night. I am here watching you, and

I can promise that nothing will happen.”

“Ah, I can trust you!” I seized the opportunity, and said: “I promise

you that if I see any evidence of bad dreams I will wake you at once.”

“You will? Oh, will you really? How good you are to me. Then I will

sleep!” And almost at the word she gave a deep sigh of relief, and sank

back, asleep.

All night long I watched by her. She never stirred, but slept on and on

in a deep, tranquil, life-giving, health-giving sleep. Her lips were

slightly parted, and her breast rose and fell with the regularity of a

pendulum. There was a smile on her face, and it was evident that no bad

dreams had come to disturb her peace of mind.

In the early morning her maid came, and I left her in her care and took

myself back home, for I was anxious about many things. I sent a short

wire to Van Helsing and to Arthur, telling them of the excellent result

of the operation. My own work, with its manifold arrears, took me all

day to clear off; it was dark when I was able to inquire about my

zoöphagous patient. The report was good; he had been quite quiet for the

past day and night. A telegram came from Van Helsing at Amsterdam whilst

I was at dinner, suggesting that I should be at Hillingham to-night, as

it might be well to be at hand, and stating that he was leaving by the

night mail and would join me early in the morning.

 * * * * *

_9 September_.--I was pretty tired and worn out when I got to

Hillingham. For two nights I had hardly had a wink of sleep, and my

brain was beginning to feel that numbness which marks cerebral

exhaustion. Lucy was up and in cheerful spirits. When she shook hands

with me she looked sharply in my face and said:--

“No sitting up to-night for you. You are worn out. I am quite well

again; indeed, I am; and if there is to be any sitting up, it is I who

will sit up with you.” I would not argue the point, but went and had my

supper. Lucy came with me, and, enlivened by her charming presence, I

made an excellent meal, and had a couple of glasses of the more than

excellent port. Then Lucy took me upstairs, and showed me a room next

her own, where a cozy fire was burning. “Now,” she said, “you must stay

here. I shall leave this door open and my door too. You can lie on the

sofa for I know that nothing would induce any of you doctors to go to

bed whilst there is a patient above the horizon. If I want anything I

shall call out, and you can come to me at once.” I could not but

acquiesce, for I was “dog-tired,” and could not have sat up had I tried.

So, on her renewing her promise to call me if she should want anything,

I lay on the sofa, and forgot all about everything.

_Lucy Westenra’s Diary._

_9 September._--I feel so happy to-night. I have been so miserably weak,

that to be able to think and move about is like feeling sunshine after

a long spell of east wind out of a steel sky. Somehow Arthur feels very,

very close to me. I seem to feel his presence warm about me. I suppose

it is that sickness and weakness are selfish things and turn our inner

eyes and sympathy on ourselves, whilst health and strength give Love

rein, and in thought and feeling he can wander where he wills. I know

where my thoughts are. If Arthur only knew! My dear, my dear, your ears

must tingle as you sleep, as mine do waking. Oh, the blissful rest of

last night! How I slept, with that dear, good Dr. Seward watching me.

And to-night I shall not fear to sleep, since he is close at hand and