unhappy, there may be error and there may be misery. Thoughtlessness,

want of attention to other people’s feelings, and want of resolution,

will do the business.”

“And do you impute it to either of those?”

“Yes; to the last. But if I go on I shall displease you by saying what I

think of persons you esteem. Stop me, whilst you can.”

“You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?”

“Yes, in conjunction with his friend.”

“I cannot believe it. Why should they try to influence him? They can

only wish his happiness; and if he is attached to me no other woman can

secure it.”

“Your first position is false. They may wish many things besides his

happiness: they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence; they

may wish him to marry a girl who has all the importance of money, great

connections, and pride.”

“Beyond a doubt they do wish him to choose Miss Darcy,” replied Jane;

“but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing. They have

known her much longer than they have known me; no wonder if they love

her better. But, whatever may be their own wishes, it is very unlikely

they should have opposed their brother’s. What sister would think

herself at liberty to do it, unless there were something very

objectionable? If they believed him attached to me they would not try to

part us; if he were so, they could not succeed. By supposing such an

affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most

unhappy. Do not distress me by the idea. I am not ashamed of having been

mistaken--or, at least, it is slight, it is nothing in comparison of

what I should feel in thinking ill of him or his sisters. Let me take it

in the best light, in the light in which it may be understood.”

Elizabeth could not oppose such a wish; and from this time Mr. Bingley’s

name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.

Mrs. Bennet still continued to wonder and repine at his returning no

more; and though a day seldom passed in which Elizabeth did not account

for it clearly, there seemed little chance of her ever considering it

with less perplexity. Her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what

she did not believe herself, that his attentions to Jane had been merely

the effect of a common and transient liking, which ceased when he saw

her no more; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at

the time, she had the same story to repeat every day. Mrs. Bennet’s best

comfort was, that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.

Mr. Bennet treated the matter differently. “So, Lizzy,” said he, one

day, “your sister is crossed in love, I find. I congratulate her. Next

to being married, a girl likes to be crossed in love a little now and

then. It is something to think of, and gives her a sort of distinction

among her companions. When is your turn to come? You will hardly bear to

be long outdone by Jane. Now is your time. Here are officers enough at

Meryton to disappoint all the young ladies in the country. Let Wickham

be your man. He is a pleasant fellow, and would jilt you creditably.”

“Thank you, sir, but a less agreeable man would satisfy me. We must not

all expect Jane’s good fortune.”

“True,” said Mr. Bennet; “but it is a comfort to think that, whatever of

that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will

always make the most of it.”

Mr. Wickham’s society was of material service in dispelling the gloom

which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the Longbourn

family. They saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now

added that of general unreserve. The whole of what Elizabeth had already

heard, his claims on Mr. Darcy, and all that he had suffered from him,

was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed; and everybody was

pleased to think how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they

had known anything of the matter.

Miss Bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might be any

extenuating circumstances in the case unknown to the society of

Hertfordshire: her mild and steady candour always pleaded for

allowances, and urged the possibility of mistakes; but by everybody else

Mr. Darcy was condemned as the worst of men.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XXV.

[Illustration]

After a week spent in professions of love and schemes of felicity, Mr.

Collins was called from his amiable Charlotte by the arrival of