Mary and her mother. "But I'm sure he will be along any minute now."

They went into the library, Mary and her mother, Tom and Mr. Damon. And

there they sat waiting. Tom tried to entertain Mary and Mrs. Nestor

with an account of his trial trip in the Air Scout, but the two women

scarcely heard what he said.

All sat watching the clock, and looking from that to the telephone,

which they tried to hope would ring momentarily and transmit to them

good news. Then they would listen for the sound of footsteps or bicycle

wheels on the gravel walk. But they heard nothing, and as the seconds

were ticked off on the clock the nervousness of Mrs. Nestor increased,

until she exclaimed:

"I can stand it no longer! We must notify the police--or do something!"

"I wouldn't notify the police just yet," counseled Tom. "Mr. Damon and

I will start out and look along the road. If it should happen, as will

probably turn out to be the case, that Mr. Nestor has met with only a

simple accident, he would not like the notoriety, or publicity, of

having the police notified."

"No, I am sure he would not," agreed Mary. "Tom's way is best, Mother."

"All right, just as you say, only find my husband," and Mrs. Nestor

sighed, and turned her head away.

"Even if Mr. Nestor had had a fall," reasoned Tom, "he could call for

help, and get some one to telephone, unless--"

And as he reasoned thus Tom Swift gave a mental start at his own use of

the word "help."

That weird cry on the lonely meadow came back to him with startling

distinctness.

"Come on, Mr. Damon!" cried Tom, in a voice he tried to make cheerful.

"We'll find that Mr. Nestor is probably walking along, carrying his

disabled bicycle instead of having it carry him. We'll soon have him

safe back to you," he called to the two women.

"I wish I could go with you, and help search," observed Mary.

"Oh, I couldn't bear to be left alone!" exclaimed her mother.

"We'll telephone as soon as we find him," called Tom to Mrs. Nestor, as

he and Mr. Damon again got into the runabout and started away from the

place.

"What do you think of it, Tom?" asked the eccentric man, when they were

once more on the road.

"Why, nothing much--as yet," Tom said. "That is, I think nothing more

than a simple accident has happened, if, indeed, it is anything more

than that he has delayed to talk to some friends."

"Would he delay this long?"

"I don't know."

"And then, Tom--bless my spectacles! what of that cry we heard? Could

that have been Mr. Nestor?"

There! It was out! The suspicion that Tom had been trying to keep his

mind away from came to the fore. Well, he might as well race the issue

now as later.

"I've been thinking of that," he told Mr. Damon. "It might have been

Mary's father calling for help."

"But we looked, Tom, near the trees, and couldn't discover anything. If

he had been calling for help--"

Mr. Damon did not finish.

"He may have fallen from his wheel and been hurt," said Tom, as he

turned the electric runabout into the highway that Mr. Nestor would,

most likely, have taken on his way from Shopton. "Then he may have

called for help, and some autoists, passing, may have heard and taken

him away."

"Yes, but where, Tom? Whoever called for help was taken away, that's

sure. But where?"

"To some hospital, I suppose."

"Then hadn't we better inquire there? There are only two hospitals of

any account around here. The one in Shopton and the one in Waterfield.

My wife is on the board of Lady Managers there. We could call that

hospital up and--"

"We'll look along the road first," said Tom. "If we begin to make

inquiries at the hospitals there will be a lot of questions asked, and

a general alarm may be sent out. Mr. Nestor wouldn't like that, if he