nothing that made her feel as if she belonged to it. Every gesture,

every word, and even the silence of those with whom she came in

contact, implied, and often expressed, that she was banished, and as

much alone as if she inhabited another sphere, or communicated with

the common nature by other organs and senses than the rest of human

kind. She stood apart from moral interests, yet close beside them,

like a ghost that revisits the familiar fireside, and can no longer

make itself seen or felt; no more smile with the household joy, nor

mourn with the kindred sorrow; or, should it succeed in manifesting

its forbidden sympathy, awakening only terror and horrible repugnance.

These emotions, in fact, and its bitterest scorn besides, seemed to be

the sole portion that she retained in the universal heart. It was not

an age of delicacy; and her position, although she understood it well,

and was in little danger of forgetting it, was often brought before

her vivid self-perception, like a new anguish, by the rudest touch

upon the tenderest spot. The poor, as we have already said, whom she

sought out to be the objects of her bounty, often reviled the hand

that was stretched forth to succor them. Dames of elevated rank,

likewise, whose doors she entered in the way of her occupation, were

accustomed to distil drops of bitterness into her heart; sometimes

through that alchemy of quiet malice, by which women can concoct a

subtle poison from ordinary trifles; and sometimes, also, by a coarser

expression, that fell upon the sufferer’s defenceless breast like a

rough blow upon an ulcerated wound. Hester had schooled herself long

and well; she never responded to these attacks, save by a flush of

crimson that rose irrepressibly over her pale cheek, and again

subsided into the depths of her bosom. She was patient,—a martyr,

indeed,—but she forbore to pray for her enemies; lest, in spite of

her forgiving aspirations, the words of the blessing should stubbornly

twist themselves into a curse.

Continually, and in a thousand other ways, did she feel the

innumerable throbs of anguish that had been so cunningly contrived for

her by the undying, the ever-active sentence of the Puritan tribunal.

Clergymen paused in the street to address words of exhortation, that

brought a crowd, with its mingled grin and frown, around the poor,

sinful woman. If she entered a church, trusting to share the Sabbath

smile of the Universal Father, it was often her mishap to find herself

the text of the discourse. She grew to have a dread of children; for

they had imbibed from their parents a vague idea of something horrible

in this dreary woman, gliding silently through the town, with never

any companion but one only child. Therefore, first allowing her to

pass, they pursued her at a distance with shrill cries, and the

utterance of a word that had no distinct purport to their own

minds, but was none the less terrible to her, as proceeding from lips

that babbled it unconsciously. It seemed to argue so wide a diffusion

of her shame, that all nature knew of it; it could have caused her no

deeper pang, had the leaves of the trees whispered the dark story

among themselves,—had the summer breeze murmured about it,—had the

wintry blast shrieked it aloud! Another peculiar torture was felt in

the gaze of a new eye. When strangers looked curiously at the scarlet

letter,—and none ever failed to do so,—they branded it afresh into

Hester’s soul; so that, oftentimes, she could scarcely refrain, yet

always did refrain, from covering the symbol with her hand. But then,

again, an accustomed eye had likewise its own anguish to inflict. Its

cool stare of familiarity was intolerable. From first to last, in

short, Hester Prynne had always this dreadful agony in feeling a human

eye upon the token; the spot never grew callous; it seemed, on the

contrary, to grow more sensitive with daily torture.

[Illustration: Lonely Footsteps]

But sometimes, once in many days, or perchance in many months, she

felt an eye—a human eye—upon the ignominious brand, that seemed to

give a momentary relief, as if half of her agony were shared. The next

instant, back it all rushed again, with still a deeper throb of pain;

for, in that brief interval, she had sinned anew. Had Hester sinned

alone?

Her imagination was somewhat affected, and, had she been of a softer

moral and intellectual fibre, would have been still more so, by the

strange and solitary anguish of her life. Walking to and fro, with

those lonely footsteps, in the little world with which she was

outwardly connected, it now and then appeared to Hester,—if

altogether fancy, it was nevertheless too potent to be resisted,—she

felt or fancied, then, that the scarlet letter had endowed her with a

new sense. She shuddered to believe, yet could not help believing,

that it gave her a sympathetic knowledge of the hidden sin in other

hearts. She was terror-stricken by the revelations that were thus

made. What were they? Could they be other than the insidious whispers