and, as we were only a few feet above ground, landed unhurt. The

attendant told me the patient had gone to the left, and had taken a

straight line, so I ran as quickly as I could. As I got through the belt

of trees I saw a white figure scale the high wall which separates our

grounds from those of the deserted house.

I ran back at once, told the watchman to get three or four men

immediately and follow me into the grounds of Carfax, in case our friend

might be dangerous. I got a ladder myself, and crossing the wall,

dropped down on the other side. I could see Renfield’s figure just

disappearing behind the angle of the house, so I ran after him. On the

far side of the house I found him pressed close against the old

ironbound oak door of the chapel. He was talking, apparently to some

one, but I was afraid to go near enough to hear what he was saying, lest

I might frighten him, and he should run off. Chasing an errant swarm of

bees is nothing to following a naked lunatic, when the fit of escaping

is upon him! After a few minutes, however, I could see that he did not

take note of anything around him, and so ventured to draw nearer to

him--the more so as my men had now crossed the wall and were closing him

in. I heard him say:--

“I am here to do Your bidding, Master. I am Your slave, and You will

reward me, for I shall be faithful. I have worshipped You long and afar

off. Now that You are near, I await Your commands, and You will not pass

me by, will You, dear Master, in Your distribution of good things?”

He _is_ a selfish old beggar anyhow. He thinks of the loaves and fishes

even when he believes he is in a Real Presence. His manias make a

startling combination. When we closed in on him he fought like a tiger.

He is immensely strong, for he was more like a wild beast than a man. I

never saw a lunatic in such a paroxysm of rage before; and I hope I

shall not again. It is a mercy that we have found out his strength and

his danger in good time. With strength and determination like his, he

might have done wild work before he was caged. He is safe now at any

rate. Jack Sheppard himself couldn’t get free from the strait-waistcoat

that keeps him restrained, and he’s chained to the wall in the padded

room. His cries are at times awful, but the silences that follow are

more deadly still, for he means murder in every turn and movement.

Just now he spoke coherent words for the first time:--

“I shall be patient, Master. It is coming--coming--coming!”

So I took the hint, and came too. I was too excited to sleep, but this

diary has quieted me, and I feel I shall get some sleep to-night.

CHAPTER IX

_Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra._

“_Buda-Pesth, 24 August._

“My dearest Lucy,--

“I know you will be anxious to hear all that has happened since we

parted at the railway station at Whitby. Well, my dear, I got to Hull

all right, and caught the boat to Hamburg, and then the train on here. I

feel that I can hardly recall anything of the journey, except that I

knew I was coming to Jonathan, and, that as I should have to do some

nursing, I had better get all the sleep I could.... I found my dear one,

oh, so thin and pale and weak-looking. All the resolution has gone out

of his dear eyes, and that quiet dignity which I told you was in his

face has vanished. He is only a wreck of himself, and he does not

remember anything that has happened to him for a long time past. At

least, he wants me to believe so, and I shall never ask. He has had some

terrible shock, and I fear it might tax his poor brain if he were to try

to recall it. Sister Agatha, who is a good creature and a born nurse,

tells me that he raved of dreadful things whilst he was off his head. I

wanted her to tell me what they were; but she would only cross herself,

and say she would never tell; that the ravings of the sick were the

secrets of God, and that if a nurse through her vocation should hear

them, she should respect her trust. She is a sweet, good soul, and the

next day, when she saw I was troubled, she opened up the subject again,

and after saying that she could never mention what my poor dear raved

about, added: ‘I can tell you this much, my dear: that it was not about

anything which he has done wrong himself; and you, as his wife to be,