the general opinion. Both _The Times_ and the _Daily Telegraph_, for

instance, insisted on it the next morning, and both overlooked, just as

I did, two obvious modifying influences.

The atmosphere of the earth, we now know, contains far more oxygen or

far less argon (whichever way one likes to put it) than does Mars’. The

invigorating influences of this excess of oxygen upon the Martians

indisputably did much to counterbalance the increased weight of their

bodies. And, in the second place, we all overlooked the fact that such

mechanical intelligence as the Martian possessed was quite able to

dispense with muscular exertion at a pinch.

But I did not consider these points at the time, and so my reasoning

was dead against the chances of the invaders. With wine and food, the

confidence of my own table, and the necessity of reassuring my wife, I

grew by insensible degrees courageous and secure.

“They have done a foolish thing,” said I, fingering my wineglass. “They

are dangerous because, no doubt, they are mad with terror. Perhaps they

expected to find no living things—certainly no intelligent living

things.”

“A shell in the pit,” said I, “if the worst comes to the worst, will

kill them all.”

The intense excitement of the events had no doubt left my perceptive

powers in a state of erethism. I remember that dinner table with

extraordinary vividness even now. My dear wife’s sweet anxious face

peering at me from under the pink lamp shade, the white cloth with its

silver and glass table furniture—for in those days even philosophical

writers had many little luxuries—the crimson-purple wine in my glass,

are photographically distinct. At the end of it I sat, tempering nuts

with a cigarette, regretting Ogilvy’s rashness, and denouncing the

short-sighted timidity of the Martians.

So some respectable dodo in the Mauritius might have lorded it in his

nest, and discussed the arrival of that shipful of pitiless sailors in

want of animal food. “We will peck them to death tomorrow, my dear.”

I did not know it, but that was the last civilised dinner I was to eat

for very many strange and terrible days.

VIII.

FRIDAY NIGHT.

The most extraordinary thing to my mind, of all the strange and

wonderful things that happened upon that Friday, was the dovetailing of

the commonplace habits of our social order with the first beginnings of

the series of events that was to topple that social order headlong. If

on Friday night you had taken a pair of compasses and drawn a circle

with a radius of five miles round the Woking sand-pits, I doubt if you

would have had one human being outside it, unless it were some relation

of Stent or of the three or four cyclists or London people lying dead

on the common, whose emotions or habits were at all affected by the

new-comers. Many people had heard of the cylinder, of course, and

talked about it in their leisure, but it certainly did not make the

sensation that an ultimatum to Germany would have done.

In London that night poor Henderson’s telegram describing the gradual

unscrewing of the shot was judged to be a canard, and his evening

paper, after wiring for authentication from him and receiving no

reply—the man was killed—decided not to print a special edition.

Even within the five-mile circle the great majority of people were

inert. I have already described the behaviour of the men and women to

whom I spoke. All over the district people were dining and supping;

working men were gardening after the labours of the day, children were

being put to bed, young people were wandering through the lanes

love-making, students sat over their books.

Maybe there was a murmur in the village streets, a novel and dominant

topic in the public-houses, and here and there a messenger, or even an

eye-witness of the later occurrences, caused a whirl of excitement, a

shouting, and a running to and fro; but for the most part the daily

routine of working, eating, drinking, sleeping, went on as it had done

for countless years—as though no planet Mars existed in the sky. Even

at Woking station and Horsell and Chobham that was the case.

In Woking junction, until a late hour, trains were stopping and going

on, others were shunting on the sidings, passengers were alighting and

waiting, and everything was proceeding in the most ordinary way. A boy

from the town, trenching on Smith’s monopoly, was selling papers with

the afternoon’s news. The ringing impact of trucks, the sharp whistle

of the engines from the junction, mingled with their shouts of “Men

from Mars!” Excited men came into the station about nine o’clock with

incredible tidings, and caused no more disturbance than drunkards might

have done. People rattling Londonwards peered into the darkness outside

the carriage windows, and saw only a rare, flickering, vanishing spark

dance up from the direction of Horsell, a red glow and a thin veil of

smoke driving across the stars, and thought that nothing more serious

than a heath fire was happening. It was only round the edge of the

common that any disturbance was perceptible. There were half a dozen