A Villaine that is hither come in spight,

To scorne at our Solemnitie this night

 Cap. Young Romeo is it?

 Tib. 'Tis he, that Villaine Romeo

 Cap. Content thee gentle Coz, let him alone,

A beares him like a portly Gentleman:

And to say truth, Verona brags of him,

To be a vertuous and well gouern'd youth:

I would not for the wealth of all the towne,

Here in my house do him disparagement:

Therfore be patient, take no note of him,

It is my will, the which if thou respect,

Shew a faire presence, and put off these frownes,

An ill beseeming semblance for a Feast

 Tib. It fits when such a Villaine is a guest,

Ile not endure him

 Cap. He shall be endur'd.

What goodman boy, I say he shall, go too,

Am I the Maister here or you? go too,

Youle not endure him, God shall mend my soule,

Youle make a Mutinie among the Guests:

You will set cocke a hoope, youle be the man

 Tib. Why Vncle, 'tis a shame

 Cap. Go too, go too,

You are a sawcy Boy, 'ist so indeed?

This tricke may chance to scath you, I know what,

You must contrary me, marry 'tis time.

Well said my hearts, you are a Princox, goe,

Be quiet, or more light, more light for shame,

Ile make you quiet. What, chearely my hearts

 Tib. Patience perforce, with wilfull choler meeting,

Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting:

I will withdraw, but this intrusion shall

Now seeming sweet, conuert to bitter gall.

Enter.

 Rom. If I prophane with my vnworthiest hand,

This holy shrine, the gentle sin is this,

My lips to blushing Pilgrims did ready stand,

To smooth that rough touch, with a tender kisse

 Iul. Good Pilgrime,

You do wrong your hand too much.

Which mannerly deuotion shewes in this,

For Saints haue hands, that Pilgrims hands do tuch,

And palme to palme, is holy Palmers kisse

 Rom. Haue not Saints lips, and holy Palmers too?

 Iul. I Pilgrim, lips that they must vse in prayer

 Rom. O then deare Saint, let lips do what hands do,

They pray (grant thou) least faith turne to dispaire

 Iul. Saints do not moue,

Though grant for prayers sake

 Rom. Then moue not while my prayers effect I take:

Thus from my lips, by thine my sin is purg'd

 Iul. Then haue my lips the sin that they haue tooke

 Rom. Sin from my lips? O trespasse sweetly vrg'd:

Giue me my sin againe

 Iul. You kisse by'th' booke

 Nur. Madam your Mother craues a word with you

 Rom. What is her Mother?

 Nurs. Marrie Batcheler,

Her Mother is the Lady of the house,

And a good Lady, and a wise, and Vertuous,

I Nur'st her Daughter that you talkt withall:

I tell you, he that can lay hold of her,

Shall haue the chincks

 Rom. Is she a Capulet?

O deare account! My life is my foes debt

 Ben. Away, be gone, the sport is at the best

 Rom. I so I feare, the more is my vnrest

 Cap. Nay Gentlemen prepare not to be gone,

We haue a trifling foolish Banquet towards: