water mains near the railway arch smashed, and the water bubbling out

like a spring upon the road.

That was the story I got from him, bit by bit. He grew calmer telling

me and trying to make me see the things he had seen. He had eaten no

food since midday, he told me early in his narrative, and I found some

mutton and bread in the pantry and brought it into the room. We lit no

lamp for fear of attracting the Martians, and ever and again our hands

would touch upon bread or meat. As he talked, things about us came

darkly out of the darkness, and the trampled bushes and broken rose

trees outside the window grew distinct. It would seem that a number of

men or animals had rushed across the lawn. I began to see his face,

blackened and haggard, as no doubt mine was also.

When we had finished eating we went softly upstairs to my study, and I

looked again out of the open window. In one night the valley had become

a valley of ashes. The fires had dwindled now. Where flames had been

there were now streamers of smoke; but the countless ruins of shattered

and gutted houses and blasted and blackened trees that the night had

hidden stood out now gaunt and terrible in the pitiless light of dawn.

Yet here and there some object had had the luck to escape—a white

railway signal here, the end of a greenhouse there, white and fresh

amid the wreckage. Never before in the history of warfare had

destruction been so indiscriminate and so universal. And shining with

the growing light of the east, three of the metallic giants stood about

the pit, their cowls rotating as though they were surveying the

desolation they had made.

It seemed to me that the pit had been enlarged, and ever and again

puffs of vivid green vapour streamed up and out of it towards the

brightening dawn—streamed up, whirled, broke, and vanished.

Beyond were the pillars of fire about Chobham. They became pillars of

bloodshot smoke at the first touch of day.

XII.

WHAT I SAW OF THE DESTRUCTION OF WEYBRIDGE AND SHEPPERTON.

As the dawn grew brighter we withdrew from the window from which we had

watched the Martians, and went very quietly downstairs.

The artilleryman agreed with me that the house was no place to stay in.

He proposed, he said, to make his way Londonward, and thence rejoin his

battery—No. 12, of the Horse Artillery. My plan was to return at once

to Leatherhead; and so greatly had the strength of the Martians

impressed me that I had determined to take my wife to Newhaven, and go

with her out of the country forthwith. For I already perceived clearly

that the country about London must inevitably be the scene of a

disastrous struggle before such creatures as these could be destroyed.

Between us and Leatherhead, however, lay the third cylinder, with its

guarding giants. Had I been alone, I think I should have taken my

chance and struck across country. But the artilleryman dissuaded me:

“It’s no kindness to the right sort of wife,” he said, “to make her a

widow”; and in the end I agreed to go with him, under cover of the

woods, northward as far as Street Cobham before I parted with him.

Thence I would make a big detour by Epsom to reach Leatherhead.

I should have started at once, but my companion had been in active

service and he knew better than that. He made me ransack the house for

a flask, which he filled with whisky; and we lined every available

pocket with packets of biscuits and slices of meat. Then we crept out

of the house, and ran as quickly as we could down the ill-made road by

which I had come overnight. The houses seemed deserted. In the road lay

a group of three charred bodies close together, struck dead by the

Heat-Ray; and here and there were things that people had dropped—a

clock, a slipper, a silver spoon, and the like poor valuables. At the

corner turning up towards the post office a little cart, filled with

boxes and furniture, and horseless, heeled over on a broken wheel. A

cash box had been hastily smashed open and thrown under the debris.

Except the lodge at the Orphanage, which was still on fire, none of the

houses had suffered very greatly here. The Heat-Ray had shaved the

chimney tops and passed. Yet, save ourselves, there did not seem to be

a living soul on Maybury Hill. The majority of the inhabitants had

escaped, I suppose, by way of the Old Woking road—the road I had taken

when I drove to Leatherhead—or they had hidden.

We went down the lane, by the body of the man in black, sodden now from

the overnight hail, and broke into the woods at the foot of the hill.

We pushed through these towards the railway without meeting a soul. The

woods across the line were but the scarred and blackened ruins of

woods; for the most part the trees had fallen, but a certain proportion