long ago fallen away, leaving a bare and harsh outline, which might

have been repulsive, had she possessed friends or companions to be

repelled by it. Even the attractiveness of her person had undergone a

similar change. It might be partly owing to the studied austerity of

her dress, and partly to the lack of demonstration in her manners. It

was a sad transformation, too, that her rich and luxuriant hair had

either been cut off, or was so completely hidden by a cap, that not a

shining lock of it ever once gushed into the sunshine. It was due in

part to all these causes, but still more to something else, that there

seemed to be no longer anything in Hester’s face for Love to dwell

upon; nothing in Hester’s form, though majestic and statue-like, that

Passion would ever dream of clasping in its embrace; nothing in

Hester’s bosom, to make it ever again the pillow of Affection. Some

attribute had departed from her, the permanence of which had been

essential to keep her a woman. Such is frequently the fate, and such

the stern development, of the feminine character and person, when the

woman has encountered, and lived through, an experience of peculiar

severity. If she be all tenderness, she will die. If she survive, the

tenderness will either be crushed out of her, or—and the outward

semblance is the same—crushed so deeply into her heart that it can

never show itself more. The latter is perhaps the truest theory. She

who has once been woman, and ceased to be so, might at any moment

become a woman again if there were only the magic touch to effect the

transfiguration. We shall see whether Hester Prynne were ever

afterwards so touched, and so transfigured.

Much of the marble coldness of Hester’s impression was to be

attributed to the circumstance, that her life had turned, in a great

measure, from passion and feeling, to thought. Standing alone in the

world,—alone, as to any dependence on society, and with little Pearl

to be guided and protected,—alone, and hopeless of retrieving her

position, even had she not scorned to consider it desirable,—she cast

away the fragments of a broken chain. The world’s law was no law for

her mind. It was an age in which the human intellect, newly

emancipated, had taken a more active and a wider range than for many

centuries before. Men of the sword had overthrown nobles and kings.

Men bolder than these had overthrown and rearranged—not actually, but

within the sphere of theory, which was their most real abode—the

whole system of ancient prejudice, wherewith was linked much of

ancient principle. Hester Prynne imbibed this spirit. She assumed a

freedom of speculation, then common enough on the other side of the

Atlantic, but which our forefathers, had they known it, would have

held to be a deadlier crime than that stigmatized by the scarlet

letter. In her lonesome cottage, by the sea-shore, thoughts visited

her, such as dared to enter no other dwelling in New England; shadowy

guests, that would have been as perilous as demons to their

entertainer, could they have been seen so much as knocking at her

door.

It is remarkable, that persons who speculate the most boldly often

conform with the most perfect quietude to the external regulations of

society. The thought suffices them, without investing itself in the

flesh and blood of action. So it seemed to be with Hester. Yet, had

little Pearl never come to her from the spiritual world, it might have

been far otherwise. Then, she might have come down to us in history,

hand in hand with Ann Hutchinson, as the foundress of a religious

sect. She might, in one of her phases, have been a prophetess. She

might, and not improbably would, have suffered death from the stern

tribunals of the period, for attempting to undermine the foundations

of the Puritan establishment. But, in the education of her child, the

mother’s enthusiasm of thought had something to wreak itself upon.

Providence, in the person of this little girl, had assigned to

Hester’s charge the germ and blossom of womanhood, to be cherished and

developed amid a host of difficulties. Everything was against her. The

world was hostile. The child’s own nature had something wrong in it,

which continually betokened that she had been born amiss,—the

effluence of her mother’s lawless passion,—and often impelled Hester

to ask, in bitterness of heart, whether it were for ill or good that

the poor little creature had been born at all.

Indeed, the same dark question often rose into her mind, with

reference to the whole race of womanhood. Was existence worth