announcing that large stores of flour were available in the northern

towns and that within twenty-four hours bread would be distributed

among the starving people in the neighbourhood. But this intelligence

did not deter him from the plan of escape he had formed, and the three

pressed eastward all day, and heard no more of the bread distribution

than this promise. Nor, as a matter of fact, did anyone else hear more

of it. That night fell the seventh star, falling upon Primrose Hill. It

fell while Miss Elphinstone was watching, for she took that duty

alternately with my brother. She saw it.

On Wednesday the three fugitives—they had passed the night in a field

of unripe wheat—reached Chelmsford, and there a body of the

inhabitants, calling itself the Committee of Public Supply, seized the

pony as provisions, and would give nothing in exchange for it but the

promise of a share in it the next day. Here there were rumours of

Martians at Epping, and news of the destruction of Waltham Abbey Powder

Mills in a vain attempt to blow up one of the invaders.

People were watching for Martians here from the church towers. My

brother, very luckily for him as it chanced, preferred to push on at

once to the coast rather than wait for food, although all three of them

were very hungry. By midday they passed through Tillingham, which,

strangely enough, seemed to be quite silent and deserted, save for a

few furtive plunderers hunting for food. Near Tillingham they suddenly

came in sight of the sea, and the most amazing crowd of shipping of all

sorts that it is possible to imagine.

For after the sailors could no longer come up the Thames, they came on

to the Essex coast, to Harwich and Walton and Clacton, and afterwards

to Foulness and Shoebury, to bring off the people. They lay in a huge

sickle-shaped curve that vanished into mist at last towards the Naze.

Close inshore was a multitude of fishing smacks—English, Scotch,

French, Dutch, and Swedish; steam launches from the Thames, yachts,

electric boats; and beyond were ships of larger burden, a multitude of

filthy colliers, trim merchantmen, cattle ships, passenger boats,

petroleum tanks, ocean tramps, an old white transport even, neat white

and grey liners from Southampton and Hamburg; and along the blue coast

across the Blackwater my brother could make out dimly a dense swarm of

boats chaffering with the people on the beach, a swarm which also

extended up the Blackwater almost to Maldon.

About a couple of miles out lay an ironclad, very low in the water,

almost, to my brother’s perception, like a water-logged ship. This was

the ram _Thunder Child_. It was the only warship in sight, but far away

to the right over the smooth surface of the sea—for that day there was

a dead calm—lay a serpent of black smoke to mark the next ironclads of

the Channel Fleet, which hovered in an extended line, steam up and

ready for action, across the Thames estuary during the course of the

Martian conquest, vigilant and yet powerless to prevent it.

At the sight of the sea, Mrs. Elphinstone, in spite of the assurances

of her sister-in-law, gave way to panic. She had never been out of

England before, she would rather die than trust herself friendless in a

foreign country, and so forth. She seemed, poor woman, to imagine that

the French and the Martians might prove very similar. She had been

growing increasingly hysterical, fearful, and depressed during the two

days’ journeyings. Her great idea was to return to Stanmore. Things had

been always well and safe at Stanmore. They would find George at

Stanmore....

It was with the greatest difficulty they could get her down to the

beach, where presently my brother succeeded in attracting the attention

of some men on a paddle steamer from the Thames. They sent a boat and

drove a bargain for thirty-six pounds for the three. The steamer was

going, these men said, to Ostend.

It was about two o’clock when my brother, having paid their fares at

the gangway, found himself safely aboard the steamboat with his

charges. There was food aboard, albeit at exorbitant prices, and the

three of them contrived to eat a meal on one of the seats forward.

There were already a couple of score of passengers aboard, some of whom

had expended their last money in securing a passage, but the captain

lay off the Blackwater until five in the afternoon, picking up

passengers until the seated decks were even dangerously crowded. He

would probably have remained longer had it not been for the sound of

guns that began about that hour in the south. As if in answer, the

ironclad seaward fired a small gun and hoisted a string of flags. A jet

of smoke sprang out of her funnels.

Some of the passengers were of opinion that this firing came from

Shoeburyness, until it was noticed that it was growing louder. At the

same time, far away in the southeast the masts and upperworks of three