Puritan ruler. It was further decorated with strange and seemingly

cabalistic figures and diagrams, suitable to the quaint taste of the

age, which had been drawn in the stucco when newly laid on, and had

now grown hard and durable, for the admiration of after times.

Pearl, looking at this bright wonder of a house, began to caper and

dance, and imperatively required that the whole breadth of sunshine

should be stripped off its front, and given her to play with.

“No, my little Pearl!” said her mother. “Thou must gather thine own

sunshine. I have none to give thee!”

They approached the door; which was of an arched form, and flanked on

each side by a narrow tower or projection of the edifice, in both of

which were lattice-windows, with wooden shutters to close over them at

need. Lifting the iron hammer that hung at the portal, Hester Prynne

gave a summons, which was answered by one of the Governor’s

bond-servants; a free-born Englishman, but now a seven years’ slave.

During that term he was to be the property of his master, and as much

a commodity of bargain and sale as an ox, or a joint-stool. The serf

wore the blue coat, which was the customary garb of serving-men of

that period, and long before, in the old hereditary halls of England.

“Is the worshipful Governor Bellingham within?” inquired Hester.

“Yea, forsooth,” replied the bond-servant, staring with wide-open eyes

at the scarlet letter, which, being a new-comer in the country, he had

never before seen. “Yea, his honorable worship is within. But he hath

a godly minister or two with him, and likewise a leech. Ye may not see

his worship now.”

“Nevertheless, I will enter,” answered Hester Prynne, and the

bond-servant, perhaps judging from the decision of her air, and the

glittering symbol in her bosom, that she was a great lady in the land,

offered no opposition.

So the mother and little Pearl were admitted into the hall of

entrance. With many variations, suggested by the nature of his

building-materials, diversity of climate, and a different mode of

social life, Governor Bellingham had planned his new habitation after

the residences of gentlemen of fair estate in his native land. Here,

then, was a wide and reasonably lofty hall, extending through the

whole depth of the house, and forming a medium of general

communication, more or less directly, with all the other apartments.

At one extremity, this spacious room was lighted by the windows of the

two towers, which formed a small recess on either side of the portal.

At the other end, though partly muffled by a curtain, it was more

powerfully illuminated by one of those embowed hall-windows which we

read of in old books, and which was provided with a deep and cushioned

seat. Here, on the cushion, lay a folio tome, probably of the

Chronicles of England, or other such substantial literature; even as,

in our own days, we scatter gilded volumes on the centre-table, to be

turned over by the casual guest. The furniture of the hall consisted

of some ponderous chairs, the backs of which were elaborately carved

with wreaths of oaken flowers; and likewise a table in the same taste;

the whole being of the Elizabethan age, or perhaps earlier, and

heirlooms, transferred hither from the Governor’s paternal home. On

the table—in token that the sentiment of old English hospitality had

not been left behind—stood a large pewter tankard, at the bottom of

which, had Hester or Pearl peeped into it, they might have seen the

frothy remnant of a recent draught of ale.

On the wall hung a row of portraits, representing the forefathers of

the Bellingham lineage, some with armor on their breasts, and others

with stately ruffs and robes of peace. All were characterized by the

sternness and severity which old portraits so invariably put on; as if

they were the ghosts, rather than the pictures, of departed worthies,

and were gazing with harsh and intolerant criticism at the pursuits

and enjoyments of living men.

[Illustration: The Governor’s Breastplate]

At about the centre of the oaken panels, that lined the hall, was

suspended a suit of mail, not, like the pictures, an ancestral relic,

but of the most modern date; for it had been manufactured by a skilful

armorer in London, the same year in which Governor Bellingham came

over to New England. There was a steel head-piece, a cuirass, a

gorget, and greaves, with a pair of gauntlets and a sword hanging

beneath; all, and especially the helmet and breastplate, so highly

burnished as to glow with white radiance, and scatter an illumination

everywhere about upon the floor. This bright panoply was not meant for

mere idle show, but had been worn by the Governor on many a solemn

muster and training field, and had glittered, moreover, at the head of

a regiment in the Pequod war. For, though bred a lawyer, and

accustomed to speak of Bacon, Coke, Noye, and Finch as his

professional associates, the exigencies of this new country had

transformed Governor Bellingham into a soldier, as well as a statesman

and ruler.

Little Pearl—who was as greatly pleased with the gleaming armor as

she had been with the glittering frontispiece of the house—spent some

time looking into the polished mirror of the breastplate.