especially in the kitchen. Unnecessary clutter was something they could

not tolerate, especially if it was dirty. They had moreover brought

most of their own furnishings and equipment with them. For this reason,

many things had become superfluous which, although they could not be

sold, the family did not wish to discard. All these things found their

way into Gregor’s room. The dustbins from the kitchen found their way

in there too. The charwoman was always in a hurry, and anything she

couldn’t use for the time being she would just chuck in there. He,

fortunately, would usually see no more than the object and the hand

that held it. The woman most likely meant to fetch the things back out

again when she had time and the opportunity, or to throw everything out

in one go, but what actually happened was that they were left where

they landed when they had first been thrown unless Gregor made his way

through the junk and moved it somewhere else. At first he moved it

because, with no other room free where he could crawl about, he was

forced to, but later on he came to enjoy it although moving about in

that way left him sad and tired to death, and he would remain immobile

for hours afterwards.

The gentlemen who rented the room would sometimes take their evening

meal at home in the living room that was used by everyone, and so the

door to this room was often kept closed in the evening. But Gregor

found it easy to give up having the door open, he had, after all, often

failed to make use of it when it was open and, without the family

having noticed it, lain in his room in its darkest corner. One time,

though, the charwoman left the door to the living room slightly open,

and it remained open when the gentlemen who rented the room came in in

the evening and the light was put on. They sat up at the table where,

formerly, Gregor had taken his meals with his father and mother, they

unfolded the serviettes and picked up their knives and forks. Gregor’s

mother immediately appeared in the doorway with a dish of meat and soon

behind her came his sister with a dish piled high with potatoes. The

food was steaming, and filled the room with its smell. The gentlemen

bent over the dishes set in front of them as if they wanted to test the

food before eating it, and the gentleman in the middle, who seemed to

count as an authority for the other two, did indeed cut off a piece of

meat while it was still in its dish, clearly wishing to establish

whether it was sufficiently cooked or whether it should be sent back to

the kitchen. It was to his satisfaction, and Gregor’s mother and

sister, who had been looking on anxiously, began to breathe again and

smiled.

The family themselves ate in the kitchen. Nonetheless, Gregor’s father

came into the living room before he went into the kitchen, bowed once

with his cap in his hand and did his round of the table. The gentlemen

stood as one, and mumbled something into their beards. Then, once they

were alone, they ate in near perfect silence. It seemed remarkable to

Gregor that above all the various noises of eating their chewing teeth

could still be heard, as if they had wanted to show Gregor that you

need teeth in order to eat and it was not possible to perform anything

with jaws that are toothless however nice they might be. “I’d like to

eat something”, said Gregor anxiously, “but not anything like they’re

eating. They do feed themselves. And here I am, dying!”

Throughout all this time, Gregor could not remember having heard the

violin being played, but this evening it began to be heard from the

kitchen. The three gentlemen had already finished their meal, the one

in the middle had produced a newspaper, given a page to each of the

others, and now they leant back in their chairs reading them and

smoking. When the violin began playing they became attentive, stood up

and went on tip-toe over to the door of the hallway where they stood

pressed against each other. Someone must have heard them in the

kitchen, as Gregor’s father called out: “Is the playing perhaps

unpleasant for the gentlemen? We can stop it straight away.” “On the

contrary”, said the middle gentleman, “would the young lady not like to

come in and play for us here in the room, where it is, after all, much

more cosy and comfortable?” “Oh yes, we’d love to”, called back

Gregor’s father as if he had been the violin player himself. The

gentlemen stepped back into the room and waited. Gregor’s father soon

appeared with the music stand, his mother with the music and his sister

with the violin. She calmly prepared everything for her to begin

playing; his parents, who had never rented a room out before and