into the thunderous one. I was now myself looking out for the conveyance

which was to take me to the Count. Each moment I expected to see the

glare of lamps through the blackness; but all was dark. The only light

was the flickering rays of our own lamps, in which the steam from our

hard-driven horses rose in a white cloud. We could see now the sandy

road lying white before us, but there was on it no sign of a vehicle.

The passengers drew back with a sigh of gladness, which seemed to mock

my own disappointment. I was already thinking what I had best do, when

the driver, looking at his watch, said to the others something which I

could hardly hear, it was spoken so quietly and in so low a tone; I

thought it was “An hour less than the time.” Then turning to me, he said

in German worse than my own:--

“There is no carriage here. The Herr is not expected after all. He will

now come on to Bukovina, and return to-morrow or the next day; better

the next day.” Whilst he was speaking the horses began to neigh and

snort and plunge wildly, so that the driver had to hold them up. Then,

amongst a chorus of screams from the peasants and a universal crossing

of themselves, a calèche, with four horses, drove up behind us, overtook

us, and drew up beside the coach. I could see from the flash of our

lamps, as the rays fell on them, that the horses were coal-black and

splendid animals. They were driven by a tall man, with a long brown

beard and a great black hat, which seemed to hide his face from us. I

could only see the gleam of a pair of very bright eyes, which seemed red

in the lamplight, as he turned to us. He said to the driver:--

“You are early to-night, my friend.” The man stammered in reply:--

“The English Herr was in a hurry,” to which the stranger replied:--

“That is why, I suppose, you wished him to go on to Bukovina. You cannot

deceive me, my friend; I know too much, and my horses are swift.” As he

spoke he smiled, and the lamplight fell on a hard-looking mouth, with

very red lips and sharp-looking teeth, as white as ivory. One of my

companions whispered to another the line from Burger’s “Lenore”:--

 “Denn die Todten reiten schnell”--

 (“For the dead travel fast.”)

The strange driver evidently heard the words, for he looked up with a

gleaming smile. The passenger turned his face away, at the same time

putting out his two fingers and crossing himself. “Give me the Herr’s

luggage,” said the driver; and with exceeding alacrity my bags were

handed out and put in the calèche. Then I descended from the side of the

coach, as the calèche was close alongside, the driver helping me with a

hand which caught my arm in a grip of steel; his strength must have been

prodigious. Without a word he shook his reins, the horses turned, and we

swept into the darkness of the Pass. As I looked back I saw the steam

from the horses of the coach by the light of the lamps, and projected

against it the figures of my late companions crossing themselves. Then

the driver cracked his whip and called to his horses, and off they swept

on their way to Bukovina. As they sank into the darkness I felt a

strange chill, and a lonely feeling came over me; but a cloak was thrown

over my shoulders, and a rug across my knees, and the driver said in

excellent German:--

“The night is chill, mein Herr, and my master the Count bade me take all

care of you. There is a flask of slivovitz (the plum brandy of the

country) underneath the seat, if you should require it.” I did not take

any, but it was a comfort to know it was there all the same. I felt a

little strangely, and not a little frightened. I think had there been

any alternative I should have taken it, instead of prosecuting that

unknown night journey. The carriage went at a hard pace straight along,

then we made a complete turn and went along another straight road. It

seemed to me that we were simply going over and over the same ground

again; and so I took note of some salient point, and found that this was

so. I would have liked to have asked the driver what this all meant, but

I really feared to do so, for I thought that, placed as I was, any

protest would have had no effect in case there had been an intention to

delay. By-and-by, however, as I was curious to know how time was

passing, I struck a match, and by its flame looked at my watch; it was

within a few minutes of midnight. This gave me a sort of shock, for I

suppose the general superstition about midnight was increased by my

recent experiences. I waited with a sick feeling of suspense.

Then a dog began to howl somewhere in a farmhouse far down the road--a