to give him a chance of reaching the trap. How he came there, I know

not, but I heard his voice raised in a tone of imperious command, and

looking towards the sound, saw him stand in the roadway. As he swept his

long arms, as though brushing aside some impalpable obstacle, the wolves

fell back and back further still. Just then a heavy cloud passed across

the face of the moon, so that we were again in darkness.

When I could see again the driver was climbing into the calèche, and the

wolves had disappeared. This was all so strange and uncanny that a

dreadful fear came upon me, and I was afraid to speak or move. The time

seemed interminable as we swept on our way, now in almost complete

darkness, for the rolling clouds obscured the moon. We kept on

ascending, with occasional periods of quick descent, but in the main

always ascending. Suddenly, I became conscious of the fact that the

driver was in the act of pulling up the horses in the courtyard of a

vast ruined castle, from whose tall black windows came no ray of light,

and whose broken battlements showed a jagged line against the moonlit

sky.

CHAPTER II

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL--_continued_

_5 May._--I must have been asleep, for certainly if I had been fully

awake I must have noticed the approach of such a remarkable place. In

the gloom the courtyard looked of considerable size, and as several dark

ways led from it under great round arches, it perhaps seemed bigger than

it really is. I have not yet been able to see it by daylight.

When the calèche stopped, the driver jumped down and held out his hand

to assist me to alight. Again I could not but notice his prodigious

strength. His hand actually seemed like a steel vice that could have

crushed mine if he had chosen. Then he took out my traps, and placed

them on the ground beside me as I stood close to a great door, old and

studded with large iron nails, and set in a projecting doorway of

massive stone. I could see even in the dim light that the stone was

massively carved, but that the carving had been much worn by time and

weather. As I stood, the driver jumped again into his seat and shook the

reins; the horses started forward, and trap and all disappeared down one

of the dark openings.

I stood in silence where I was, for I did not know what to do. Of bell

or knocker there was no sign; through these frowning walls and dark

window openings it was not likely that my voice could penetrate. The

time I waited seemed endless, and I felt doubts and fears crowding upon

me. What sort of place had I come to, and among what kind of people?

What sort of grim adventure was it on which I had embarked? Was this a

customary incident in the life of a solicitor’s clerk sent out to

explain the purchase of a London estate to a foreigner? Solicitor’s

clerk! Mina would not like that. Solicitor--for just before leaving

London I got word that my examination was successful; and I am now a

full-blown solicitor! I began to rub my eyes and pinch myself to see if

I were awake. It all seemed like a horrible nightmare to me, and I

expected that I should suddenly awake, and find myself at home, with

the dawn struggling in through the windows, as I had now and again felt

in the morning after a day of overwork. But my flesh answered the

pinching test, and my eyes were not to be deceived. I was indeed awake

and among the Carpathians. All I could do now was to be patient, and to

wait the coming of the morning.

Just as I had come to this conclusion I heard a heavy step approaching

behind the great door, and saw through the chinks the gleam of a coming

light. Then there was the sound of rattling chains and the clanking of

massive bolts drawn back. A key was turned with the loud grating noise

of long disuse, and the great door swung back.

Within, stood a tall old man, clean shaven save for a long white

moustache, and clad in black from head to foot, without a single speck

of colour about him anywhere. He held in his hand an antique silver

lamp, in which the flame burned without chimney or globe of any kind,

throwing long quivering shadows as it flickered in the draught of the

open door. The old man motioned me in with his right hand with a courtly

gesture, saying in excellent English, but with a strange intonation:--

“Welcome to my house! Enter freely and of your own will!” He made no

motion of stepping to meet me, but stood like a statue, as though his