Keep, likewise, mine! There are none in this land that know me.

Breathe not, to any human soul, that thou didst ever call me husband!

Here, on this wild outskirt of the earth, I shall pitch my tent; for,

elsewhere a wanderer, and isolated from human interests, I find here a

woman, a man, a child, amongst whom and myself there exist the closest

ligaments. No matter whether of love or hate; no matter whether of

right or wrong! Thou and thine, Hester Prynne, belong to me. My home

is where thou art, and where he is. But betray me not!”

[Illustration: “The Eyes of the wrinkled Scholar glowed”]

“Wherefore dost thou desire it?” inquired Hester, shrinking, she

hardly knew why, from this secret bond. “Why not announce thyself

openly, and cast me off at once?”

“It may be,” he replied, “because I will not encounter the dishonor

that besmirches the husband of a faithless woman. It may be for other

reasons. Enough, it is my purpose to live and die unknown. Let,

therefore, thy husband be to the world as one already dead, and of

whom no tidings shall ever come. Recognize me not, by word, by sign,

by look! Breathe not the secret, above all, to the man thou wottest

of. Shouldst thou fail me in this, beware! His fame, his position, his

life, will be in my hands. Beware!”

“I will keep thy secret, as I have his,” said Hester.

“Swear it!” rejoined he.

And she took the oath.

“And now, Mistress Prynne,” said old Roger Chillingworth, as he was

hereafter to be named, “I leave thee alone; alone with thy infant, and

the scarlet letter! How is it, Hester? Doth thy sentence bind thee to

wear the token in thy sleep? Art thou not afraid of nightmares and

hideous dreams?”

“Why dost thou smile so at me?” inquired Hester, troubled at the

expression of his eyes. “Art thou like the Black Man that haunts the

forest round about us? Hast thou enticed me into a bond that will

prove the ruin of my soul?”

“Not thy soul,” he answered, with another smile. “No, not thine!”

 [Illustration]

 V.

 HESTER AT HER NEEDLE.

Hester Prynne’s term of confinement was now at an end. Her prison-door

was thrown open, and she came forth into the sunshine, which, falling

on all alike, seemed, to her sick and morbid heart, as if meant for no

other purpose than to reveal the scarlet letter on her breast. Perhaps

there was a more real torture in her first unattended footsteps from

the threshold of the prison, than even in the procession and spectacle

that have been described, where she was made the common infamy, at

which all mankind was summoned to point its finger. Then, she was

supported by an unnatural tension of the nerves, and by all the

combative energy of her character, which enabled her to convert the

scene into a kind of lurid triumph. It was, moreover, a separate and

insulated event, to occur but once in her lifetime, and to meet which,

therefore, reckless of economy, she might call up the vital strength

that would have sufficed for many quiet years. The very law that

condemned her—a giant of stern features, but with vigor to support,

as well as to annihilate, in his iron arm—had held her up, through

the terrible ordeal of her ignominy. But now, with this unattended

walk from her prison-door, began the daily custom; and she must either

sustain and carry it forward by the ordinary resources of her nature,

or sink beneath it. She could no longer borrow from the future to help

her through the present grief. To-morrow would bring its own trial

with it; so would the next day, and so would the next; each its own

trial, and yet the very same that was now so unutterably grievous to

be borne. The days of the far-off future would toil onward, still with

the same burden for her to take up, and bear along with her, but never

to fling down; for the accumulating days, and added years, would pile

up their misery upon the heap of shame. Throughout them all, giving up

her individuality, she would become the general symbol at which the

preacher and moralist might point, and in which they might vivify and

embody their images of woman’s frailty and sinful passion. Thus the

young and pure would be taught to look at her, with the scarlet letter

flaming on her breast,—at her, the child of honorable parents,—at