"We can't lose any more time, if we're to get out of here before night."

"Go ahead," said Jackson, and together they went to the cabin door.

"Locked!" exclaimed Tom, as he saw a padlock attached to a chain. It

appeared to be fastened through two staples, driven one into the door

and the other into the jamb, at right angles to one another and

overlapping.

"Knock!" suggested Jackson. But when Tom had done so, and there was no

answer, the machinist took hold of the lock. To his own surprise and

that of Tom, one of the staples pulled out and the door swung open. The

place had evidently been forced before, and the lock had not been

opened by a key. The staple had been pulled out and replaced loosely in

the holes.

For a moment nothing could be made out in the dark interior of the

shack. But as their eyes became used to the gloom, Tom and his

companion were able to see that the shack consisted of two rooms.

In the first one there was a rusty stove, a table, and some chairs, and

it was evident, from pans and skillets hanging on the wall, as well as

from a small cupboard built on one side, that this was the kitchen and

living room combined.

"Anybody here?" cried Tom, as he stepped inside.

Only a dull echo answered.

The two could now see where a door gave entrance to an inner room, and

this, a quick glance showed, was the sleeping apartment, two bunks

being built on the side walls.

"Well, somebody had it pretty comfortable here," decided Tom, as he

looked around. "They've been cooking and sleeping here, and not so very

long ago, either. It wouldn't be such a bad place if it was cleaned

out."

"That's right," agreed Jackson. "Wouldn't mind camping here myself, if

there was any fishing near."

"The river can't be far away," suggested Tom. "And now let's see what

we can find, and see if we can get a line on who has been here. But

first we'll let in a little light."

He opened a window in the sleeping room, and pushed back the heavy

plank shutter that had been closed. When the light entered it was seen

that both bunks bore evidence of having been lately slept in. The

blankets were tossed back, as if the occupants had risen, and in the

outer room, on the stove, were signs that indicated a meal had been

served not many days gone by.

"Now," observed Tom musingly, as he wandered about the place, "if we

could only find out who owns this, and who has been here lately--"

Jackson stooped over, and, thrusting aside an end of the blankets that

trailed on the floor from one of the bunks, picked up something.

"What is it?" asked Tom.

"Looks like a leather pocketbook," was the answer. "That's what it is,"

the mechanic went on, as he held the object to the light. "It's a

wallet."

"Let me see it!" exclaimed Tom quickly. He took the wallet from the

hands of Jackson. Then the young inventor uttered a cry. "A clew at

last!" he exclaimed. "A clew at last! Mr. Nestor has been in this

cabin!"

"How do you know?" asked Jackson quickly.

"This is his wallet," said Tom excitedly. "I've often seen him have it.

In fact he had it with him on Earthquake Island, the time I sent the

wireless message for help. I saw it several times then. He kept in it

what few papers he had saved from the wreck. And I've seen it often

enough since. That's Mr. Nestor's wallet all right. Besides, if you

want any other evidence--look!" He opened the leather flaps and showed

Jackson on one, stamped in gold letters, the name of Mary's father.

"Well, what do you make of it, Tom?" asked the mechanician, as he

finished his examination of the wallet. "What does it mean? The

pocket-book is empty and that--"