ghost of a chance against them. Wherever there was a possibility of

guns being laid for them unseen, a fresh canister of the black vapour

was discharged, and where the guns were openly displayed the Heat-Ray

was brought to bear.

By midnight the blazing trees along the slopes of Richmond Park and the

glare of Kingston Hill threw their light upon a network of black smoke,

blotting out the whole valley of the Thames and extending as far as the

eye could reach. And through this two Martians slowly waded, and turned

their hissing steam jets this way and that.

They were sparing of the Heat-Ray that night, either because they had

but a limited supply of material for its production or because they did

not wish to destroy the country but only to crush and overawe the

opposition they had aroused. In the latter aim they certainly

succeeded. Sunday night was the end of the organised opposition to

their movements. After that no body of men would stand against them, so

hopeless was the enterprise. Even the crews of the torpedo-boats and

destroyers that had brought their quick-firers up the Thames refused to

stop, mutinied, and went down again. The only offensive operation men

ventured upon after that night was the preparation of mines and

pitfalls, and even in that their energies were frantic and spasmodic.

One has to imagine, as well as one may, the fate of those batteries

towards Esher, waiting so tensely in the twilight. Survivors there were

none. One may picture the orderly expectation, the officers alert and

watchful, the gunners ready, the ammunition piled to hand, the limber

gunners with their horses and waggons, the groups of civilian

spectators standing as near as they were permitted, the evening

stillness, the ambulances and hospital tents with the burned and

wounded from Weybridge; then the dull resonance of the shots the

Martians fired, and the clumsy projectile whirling over the trees and

houses and smashing amid the neighbouring fields.

One may picture, too, the sudden shifting of the attention, the swiftly

spreading coils and bellyings of that blackness advancing headlong,

towering heavenward, turning the twilight to a palpable darkness, a

strange and horrible antagonist of vapour striding upon its victims,

men and horses near it seen dimly, running, shrieking, falling

headlong, shouts of dismay, the guns suddenly abandoned, men choking

and writhing on the ground, and the swift broadening-out of the opaque

cone of smoke. And then night and extinction—nothing but a silent mass

of impenetrable vapour hiding its dead.

Before dawn the black vapour was pouring through the streets of

Richmond, and the disintegrating organism of government was, with a

last expiring effort, rousing the population of London to the necessity

of flight.

XVI.

THE EXODUS FROM LONDON.

So you understand the roaring wave of fear that swept through the

greatest city in the world just as Monday was dawning—the stream of

flight rising swiftly to a torrent, lashing in a foaming tumult round

the railway stations, banked up into a horrible struggle about the

shipping in the Thames, and hurrying by every available channel

northward and eastward. By ten o’clock the police organisation, and by

midday even the railway organisations, were losing coherency, losing

shape and efficiency, guttering, softening, running at last in that

swift liquefaction of the social body.

All the railway lines north of the Thames and the South-Eastern people

at Cannon Street had been warned by midnight on Sunday, and trains were

being filled. People were fighting savagely for standing-room in the

carriages even at two o’clock. By three, people were being trampled and

crushed even in Bishopsgate Street, a couple of hundred yards or more

from Liverpool Street station; revolvers were fired, people stabbed,

and the policemen who had been sent to direct the traffic, exhausted

and infuriated, were breaking the heads of the people they were called

out to protect.

And as the day advanced and the engine drivers and stokers refused to

return to London, the pressure of the flight drove the people in an

ever-thickening multitude away from the stations and along the

northward-running roads. By midday a Martian had been seen at Barnes,

and a cloud of slowly sinking black vapour drove along the Thames and

across the flats of Lambeth, cutting off all escape over the bridges in

its sluggish advance. Another bank drove over Ealing, and surrounded a

little island of survivors on Castle Hill, alive, but unable to escape.

After a fruitless struggle to get aboard a North-Western train at Chalk

Farm—the engines of the trains that had loaded in the goods yard there

_ploughed_ through shrieking people, and a dozen stalwart men fought to

keep the crowd from crushing the driver against his furnace—my brother

emerged upon the Chalk Farm road, dodged across through a hurrying

swarm of vehicles, and had the luck to be foremost in the sack of a

cycle shop. The front tire of the machine he got was punctured in

dragging it through the window, but he got up and off, notwithstanding,

with no further injury than a cut wrist. The steep foot of Haverstock

Hill was impassable owing to several overturned horses, and my brother

struck into Belsize Road.