"That's all very well, Tom," said Mr. Swift, who seemed oppressed by

something. "As you say, money isn't everything, and I know we shall

always have enough to live on. But there is something about those two

men I do not like. They were very angry at your refusal of their offer.

I could see that. Tom, I don't want to be a croaker, but I think you'll

have to watch out for those men. They're going to be your enemies--your

rivals in the airship field," and Mr. Swift shook his head dolefully.

"Well, rivalry, when it's clean and above board, is the spice of trade

and invention," returned Tom, lightly. "I'm not afraid of that."

"No, but it may be unfair and underhand," said Mr. Swift. "I think it

would have been better, Tom, to have accepted their offer. Twenty

thousand a year, clear money, is a good sum."

"Yes, but I may make twice that with something that occurred to me only

a little while ago. Forget about those men, Dad, and I'll tell you my

new idea. But wait, I want Mr. Damon to hear it, too. Where is he?"

"He was here a little while ago. He went out when those two men came

and--"

At that moment, from the garden at the side of the library, the sound

of voices in dispute could be heard.

"Now yo' all g'wan 'way from yeah!" exclaimed some one who could be

none other than Eradicate Sampson. "Whut fo' yo' all want to clutter up

dish yeah place fo'? Massa Tom said I was to do de garden wuk, an' I'se

gwine to do it! G'wan 'way, Giant!"

"Ho! You want me to get out, s'pose you put me, black face!" cried a

big voice, that of Koku, the giant.

"There they go! At it again!" cried Tom with a smile. "Might have known

if I told Rad to do anything that Koku would be jealous. Well, I'll

have to go out now and give that giant something to do that will tax

his strength."

But as Tom was about to leave the room another voice was heard in the

garden.

"Now, boys, be nice," said some one soothingly. "The garden is large

enough for you both to work in. Rad, you begin at the lower end and

spade toward the middle. Koku, you begin at the upper end and work

down. Whoever gets to the middle first will win."

"Ha! Den I'll show dat giant some spade wuk as is spade wuk!" cried the

colored man. "Garden wuk is mah middle name."

"Be careful, Rad!" laughed Mr. Damon, for he it was who was trying to

act as peacemaker. "Remember that Koku is very strong."

"Yas, sah! He may be strong, but he's clumsy!" chuckled Eradicate. "You

watch me beat him!"

"Ho! Black man get stuck in mud!" challenged Koku. "I show him!"

Then there was silence, and Tom and his father, looking out, saw the

two disputants beginning to spade the soil while Mr. Damon, satisfied

that he had, for the time being, stopped a quarrel, turned toward the

house.

"I was just coming to look for you," said Tom. "Sorry I had to go off

in such a hurry and leave you, but I had promised to take Mary for a

ride, and as it was her first one, for a distance, I didn't want her to

back out."

"That's all right, Tom, that's all right!" said Mr. Damon genially.

"Ladies first every time. But I do want to see you, and it's about

something important."

"No trouble, I hope?" queried Tom, for the manner of the eccentric man

was rather grave.