for scrutiny—and I put a more horrible interpretation on them than they

deserved. Here again on the Surrey side were black dust that had once

been smoke, and dead bodies—a heap near the approach to the station;

but we had no glimpse of the Martians until we were some way towards

Barnes.

We saw in the blackened distance a group of three people running down a

side street towards the river, but otherwise it seemed deserted. Up the

hill Richmond town was burning briskly; outside the town of Richmond

there was no trace of the Black Smoke.

Then suddenly, as we approached Kew, came a number of people running,

and the upperworks of a Martian fighting-machine loomed in sight over

the housetops, not a hundred yards away from us. We stood aghast at our

danger, and had the Martian looked down we must immediately have

perished. We were so terrified that we dared not go on, but turned

aside and hid in a shed in a garden. There the curate crouched, weeping

silently, and refusing to stir again.

But my fixed idea of reaching Leatherhead would not let me rest, and in

the twilight I ventured out again. I went through a shrubbery, and

along a passage beside a big house standing in its own grounds, and so

emerged upon the road towards Kew. The curate I left in the shed, but

he came hurrying after me.

That second start was the most foolhardy thing I ever did. For it was

manifest the Martians were about us. No sooner had the curate overtaken

me than we saw either the fighting-machine we had seen before or

another, far away across the meadows in the direction of Kew Lodge.

Four or five little black figures hurried before it across the

green-grey of the field, and in a moment it was evident this Martian

pursued them. In three strides he was among them, and they ran

radiating from his feet in all directions. He used no Heat-Ray to

destroy them, but picked them up one by one. Apparently he tossed them

into the great metallic carrier which projected behind him, much as a

workman’s basket hangs over his shoulder.

It was the first time I realised that the Martians might have any other

purpose than destruction with defeated humanity. We stood for a moment

petrified, then turned and fled through a gate behind us into a walled

garden, fell into, rather than found, a fortunate ditch, and lay there,

scarce daring to whisper to each other until the stars were out.

I suppose it was nearly eleven o’clock before we gathered courage to

start again, no longer venturing into the road, but sneaking along

hedgerows and through plantations, and watching keenly through the

darkness, he on the right and I on the left, for the Martians, who

seemed to be all about us. In one place we blundered upon a scorched

and blackened area, now cooling and ashen, and a number of scattered

dead bodies of men, burned horribly about the heads and trunks but with

their legs and boots mostly intact; and of dead horses, fifty feet,

perhaps, behind a line of four ripped guns and smashed gun carriages.

Sheen, it seemed, had escaped destruction, but the place was silent and

deserted. Here we happened on no dead, though the night was too dark

for us to see into the side roads of the place. In Sheen my companion

suddenly complained of faintness and thirst, and we decided to try one

of the houses.

The first house we entered, after a little difficulty with the window,

was a small semi-detached villa, and I found nothing eatable left in

the place but some mouldy cheese. There was, however, water to drink;

and I took a hatchet, which promised to be useful in our next

house-breaking.

We then crossed to a place where the road turns towards Mortlake. Here

there stood a white house within a walled garden, and in the pantry of

this domicile we found a store of food—two loaves of bread in a pan, an

uncooked steak, and the half of a ham. I give this catalogue so

precisely because, as it happened, we were destined to subsist upon

this store for the next fortnight. Bottled beer stood under a shelf,

and there were two bags of haricot beans and some limp lettuces. This

pantry opened into a kind of wash-up kitchen, and in this was firewood;

there was also a cupboard, in which we found nearly a dozen of

burgundy, tinned soups and salmon, and two tins of biscuits.

We sat in the adjacent kitchen in the dark—for we dared not strike a

light—and ate bread and ham, and drank beer out of the same bottle. The

curate, who was still timorous and restless, was now, oddly enough, for

pushing on, and I was urging him to keep up his strength by eating when

the thing happened that was to imprison us.

“It can’t be midnight yet,” I said, and then came a blinding glare of

vivid green light. Everything in the kitchen leaped out, clearly

visible in green and black, and vanished again. And then followed such