Although Gregor wasn’t able to hear any news directly he did listen to

much of what was said in the next rooms, and whenever he heard anyone

speaking he would scurry straight to the appropriate door and press his

whole body against it. There was seldom any conversation, especially at

first, that was not about him in some way, even if only in secret. For

two whole days, all the talk at every mealtime was about what they

should do now; but even between meals they spoke about the same subject

as there were always at least two members of the family at home—nobody

wanted to be at home by themselves and it was out of the question to

leave the flat entirely empty. And on the very first day the maid had

fallen to her knees and begged Gregor’s mother to let her go without

delay. It was not very clear how much she knew of what had happened but

she left within a quarter of an hour, tearfully thanking Gregor’s

mother for her dismissal as if she had done her an enormous service.

She even swore emphatically not to tell anyone the slightest about what

had happened, even though no-one had asked that of her.

Now Gregor’s sister also had to help his mother with the cooking;

although that was not so much bother as no-one ate very much. Gregor

often heard how one of them would unsuccessfully urge another to eat,

and receive no more answer than “no thanks, I’ve had enough” or

something similar. No-one drank very much either. His sister would

sometimes ask his father whether he would like a beer, hoping for the

chance to go and fetch it herself. When his father then said nothing

she would add, so that he would not feel selfish, that she could send

the housekeeper for it, but then his father would close the matter with

a big, loud “No”, and no more would be said.

Even before the first day had come to an end, his father had explained

to Gregor’s mother and sister what their finances and prospects were.

Now and then he stood up from the table and took some receipt or

document from the little cash box he had saved from his business when

it had collapsed five years earlier. Gregor heard how he opened the

complicated lock and then closed it again after he had taken the item

he wanted. What he heard his father say was some of the first good news

that Gregor heard since he had first been incarcerated in his room. He

had thought that nothing at all remained from his father’s business, at

least he had never told him anything different, and Gregor had never

asked him about it anyway. Their business misfortune had reduced the

family to a state of total despair, and Gregor’s only concern at that

time had been to arrange things so that they could all forget about it

as quickly as possible. So then he started working especially hard,

with a fiery vigour that raised him from a junior salesman to a

travelling representative almost overnight, bringing with it the chance

to earn money in quite different ways. Gregor converted his success at

work straight into cash that he could lay on the table at home for the

benefit of his astonished and delighted family. They had been good

times and they had never come again, at least not with the same

splendour, even though Gregor had later earned so much that he was in a

position to bear the costs of the whole family, and did bear them. They

had even got used to it, both Gregor and the family, they took the

money with gratitude and he was glad to provide it, although there was

no longer much warm affection given in return. Gregor only remained

close to his sister now. Unlike him, she was very fond of music and a

gifted and expressive violinist, it was his secret plan to send her to

the conservatory next year even though it would cause great expense

that would have to be made up for in some other way. During Gregor’s

short periods in town, conversation with his sister would often turn to

the conservatory but it was only ever mentioned as a lovely dream that

could never be realised. Their parents did not like to hear this

innocent talk, but Gregor thought about it quite hard and decided he

would let them know what he planned with a grand announcement of it on

Christmas day.

That was the sort of totally pointless thing that went through his mind

in his present state, pressed upright against the door and listening.

There were times when he simply became too tired to continue listening,

when his head would fall wearily against the door and he would pull it

up again with a start, as even the slightest noise he caused would be

heard next door and they would all go silent. “What’s that he’s doing

now”, his father would say after a while, clearly having gone over to

the door, and only then would the interrupted conversation slowly be

taken up again.

When explaining things, his father repeated himself several times,

partly because it was a long time since he had been occupied with these

matters himself and partly because Gregor’s mother did not understand

everything the first time. From these repeated explanations Gregor

learned, to his pleasure, that despite all their misfortunes there was

still some money available from the old days. It was not a lot, but it