“Shall we not meet again?” whispered she, bending her face down close

to his. “Shall we not spend our immortal life together? Surely,

surely, we have ransomed one another, with all this woe! Thou lookest

far into eternity, with those bright dying eyes! Then tell me what

thou seest?”

“Hush, Hester, hush!” said he, with tremulous solemnity. “The law we

broke!—the sin here so awfully revealed!—let these alone be in thy

thoughts! I fear! I fear! It may be, that, when we forgot our

God,—when we violated our reverence each for the other’s soul,—it

was thenceforth vain to hope that we could meet hereafter, in an

everlasting and pure reunion. God knows; and He is merciful! He hath

proved his mercy, most of all, in my afflictions. By giving me this

burning torture to bear upon my breast! By sending yonder dark and

terrible old man, to keep the torture always at red-heat! By bringing

me hither, to die this death of triumphant ignominy before the people!

Had either of these agonies been wanting, I had been lost forever!

Praised be his name! His will be done! Farewell!”

That final word came forth with the minister’s expiring breath. The

multitude, silent till then, broke out in a strange, deep voice of awe

and wonder, which could not as yet find utterance, save in this murmur

that rolled so heavily after the departed spirit.

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 XXIV.

 CONCLUSION.

After many days, when time sufficed for the people to arrange their

thoughts in reference to the foregoing scene, there was more than one

account of what had been witnessed on the scaffold.

Most of the spectators testified to having seen, on the breast of the

unhappy minister, a SCARLET LETTER—the very semblance of that worn by

Hester Prynne—imprinted in the flesh. As regarded its origin, there

were various explanations, all of which must necessarily have been

conjectural. Some affirmed that the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale, on the

very day when Hester Prynne first wore her ignominious badge, had

begun a course of penance,—which he afterwards, in so many futile

methods, followed out,—by inflicting a hideous torture on himself.

Others contended that the stigma had not been produced until a long

time subsequent, when old Roger Chillingworth, being a potent

necromancer, had caused it to appear, through the agency of magic and

poisonous drugs. Others, again,—and those best able to appreciate

the minister’s peculiar sensibility, and the wonderful operation of

his spirit upon the body,—whispered their belief, that the awful

symbol was the effect of the ever-active tooth of remorse, gnawing

from the inmost heart outwardly, and at last manifesting Heaven’s

dreadful judgment by the visible presence of the letter. The reader

may choose among these theories. We have thrown all the light we could

acquire upon the portent, and would gladly, now that it has done its

office, erase its deep print out of our own brain; where long

meditation has fixed it in very undesirable distinctness.

It is singular, nevertheless, that certain persons, who were

spectators of the whole scene, and professed never once to have

removed their eyes from the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale, denied that there

was any mark whatever on his breast, more than on a new-born infant’s.

Neither, by their report, had his dying words acknowledged, nor even

remotely implied, any, the slightest connection, on his part, with the

guilt for which Hester Prynne had so long worn the scarlet letter.

According to these highly respectable witnesses, the minister,

conscious that he was dying,—conscious, also, that the reverence of

the multitude placed him already among saints and angels,—had

desired, by yielding up his breath in the arms of that fallen woman,

to express to the world how utterly nugatory is the choicest of man’s

own righteousness. After exhausting life in his efforts for mankind’s

spiritual good, he had made the manner of his death a parable, in

order to impress on his admirers the mighty and mournful lesson, that,

in the view of Infinite Purity, we are sinners all alike. It was to

teach them, that the holiest among us has but attained so far above

his fellows as to discern more clearly the Mercy which looks down,

and repudiate more utterly the phantom of human merit, which would

look aspiringly upward. Without disputing a truth so momentous, we

must be allowed to consider this version of Mr. Dimmesdale’s story as

only an instance of that stubborn fidelity with which a man’s

friends—and especially a clergyman’s—will sometimes uphold his

character, when proofs, clear as the mid-day sunshine on the scarlet

letter, establish him a false and sin-stained creature of the dust.

The authority which we have chiefly followed,—a manuscript of old