slow-moving motors and propellers and--"

"Ha! There you have it, Tom! And there is where my Whizzer--Wakefield

Damon's Whizzer--is going to revolutionize air travel!" cried the

eccentric man. "The difference in density! If air were as dense as

water the problem would be solved. And I have solved it! I'm going to

turn the trick, Tom! One more question. How can air be made as dense as

water, Tom Swift?"

"Why, by condensation or compression, I suppose," was the rather slow

answer. "You know they have condensed, or compressed, air until it is

liquid. I've done it myself, as an experiment."

"That's it, Tom! That's it!" cried Mr. Damon in delight. "Compressed

air will do the trick! Not compressed to a liquid, exactly, but almost

so. I'm going to revolve the propellers of my new airship in compressed

air, so dense that they will not have to have a speed of more than

seven hundred revolutions a minute. What's that compared to the three

to ten thousand revolutions of the propellers now used? The propellers

of Damon's Whizzer will be of the pusher type, and will revolve in

dense, compressed air, almost like water, and that will do away with

high speed motors, with all their complications, and make traveling in

the clouds as simple as taking out a little one-cylinder motor boat.

How's that, Tom Swift? How's that for an idea?"

To Mr. Damon's disappointment, Tom was not enthusiastic. The young

inventor gazed at his eccentric friend, and then said slowly:

"Well, that's all right in theory, but how is it going to work out in

practice?"

"That's what I came to see you about, Tom," was the reply. "Bless my

tall hat! but that's just why I hurried over here. I wanted to tell you

when I saw you going off on a trip with Miss Nestor. That's my big

idea--Damon's Whizzer--propellers revolving in compressed air like

water. Isn't that great?"

"I'm sorry to shatter your air castle," said Tom; "but for the life of

me I can't see how it will work. Of course, in theory, if you could

revolve a big-bladed propeller in very dense, or in liquid, air, there

would be more resistance than in the rarefied atmosphere of the upper

regions. And, if this could be done, I grant you that you could use

slower motors and smaller propeller blades--more like those of a motor

boat. But how are you going to get the condensed air?"

"Make it!" said Mr. Damon promptly. "Air pumps are cheap. Just carry

one or two on board the aeroplane, and condense the air as you go

along. That's a small detail that can easily be worked out. I leave

that to you."

"I'd rather you wouldn't," said Tom. "That's the whole

difficulty--compressing your air. Wait! I'll explain it to you."

Then the young inventor went into details. He told of the ponderous

machinery needed to condense air to a form approximating water, and

spoke of the terrible pressure exerted by the liquid atmosphere.

"Anything that you would gain by having a slow-speed motor and smaller

propeller blades, would be lost by the ponderous air-condensing

machinery you would need," Tom told Mr. Damon. "Besides, if you could

surround your propellers with a strata of condensed air, it would

create such terrible cold as to freeze the propeller blades and make

them as brittle as glass.

"Why, I have taken a heavy piece of metal, dipped it into liquid air,

and I could shatter the steel with a hammer as easily as a sheet of

ice. The cold of liquid air is beyond belief.

"Attempts have been made to make motors run with liquid air, but they

have not succeeded. To condense air and to carry it about so that

propellers might revolve in it, would be out of the question."