The Tragedie of Romeo and Juliet

Actus Primus. Scoena Prima.

Enter Sampson and Gregory, with Swords and Bucklers, of the

House of

Capulet.

 Sampson. Gregory: A my word wee'l not carry coales

 Greg. No, for then we should be Colliars

 Samp. I mean, if we be in choller, wee'l draw

 Greg. I, While you liue, draw your necke out

o'th Collar

 Samp. I strike quickly, being mou'd

 Greg. But thou art not quickly mou'd to strike

 Samp. A dog of the house of Mountague, moues me

 Greg. To moue, is to stir: and to be valiant, is to stand:

Therefore, if thou art mou'd, thou runst away

 Samp. A dogge of that house shall moue me to stand.

I will take the wall of any Man or Maid of Mountagues

 Greg. That shewes thee a weake slaue, for the weakest

goes to the wall

 Samp. True, and therefore women being the weaker

Vessels, are euer thrust to the wall: therefore I will push

Mountagues men from the wall, and thrust his Maides to

the wall

 Greg. The Quarrell is betweene our Masters, and vs their men

 Samp. 'Tis all one, I will shew my selfe a tyrant: when

I haue fought with the men, I will bee ciuill with the

Maids, and cut off their heads

 Greg. The heads of the Maids?

 Sam. I, the heads of the Maids, or their Maiden-heads,

Take it in what sence thou wilt

 Greg. They must take it sence, that feele it

 Samp. Me they shall feele while I am able to stand:

And 'tis knowne I am a pretty peece of flesh

 Greg. 'Tis well thou art not Fish: If thou had'st, thou

had'st beene poore Iohn. Draw thy Toole, here comes of

the House of the Mountagues.

Enter two other Seruingmen.

 Sam. My naked weapon is out: quarrel, I wil back thee

 Gre. How? Turne thy backe, and run

 Sam. Feare me not

 Gre. No marry: I feare thee

 Sam. Let vs take the Law of our sides: let them begin

 Gr. I wil frown as I passe by, & let the[m] take it as they list

 Sam. Nay, as they dare. I wil bite my Thumb at them,

which is a disgrace to them, if they beare it

 Abra. Do you bite your Thumbe at vs sir?

 Samp. I do bite my Thumbe, sir

 Abra. Do you bite your Thumb at vs, sir?

 Sam. Is the Law of our side, if I say I?

 Gre. No

 Sam. No sir, I do not bite my Thumbe at you sir: but

I bite my Thumbe sir

 Greg. Do you quarrell sir?

 Abra. Quarrell sir? no sir

 Sam. If you do sir, I am for you, I serue as good a man as you

 Abra. No better?

 Samp. Well sir.

Enter Benuolio.