spectacles, did they peep into the holds of vessels! Mighty was their

fuss about little matters, and marvellous, sometimes, the obtuseness

that allowed greater ones to slip between their fingers! Whenever such

a mischance occurred,—when a wagon-load of valuable merchandise had

been smuggled ashore, at noonday, perhaps, and directly beneath their

unsuspicious noses,—nothing could exceed the vigilance and alacrity

with which they proceeded to lock, and double-lock, and secure with

tape and sealing-wax, all the avenues of the delinquent vessel.

Instead of a reprimand for their previous negligence, the case seemed

rather to require an eulogium on their praiseworthy caution, after the

mischief had happened; a grateful recognition of the promptitude of

their zeal, the moment that there was no longer any remedy.

Unless people are more than commonly disagreeable, it is my foolish

habit to contract a kindness for them. The better part of my

companion’s character, if it have a better part, is that which usually

comes uppermost in my regard, and forms the type whereby I recognize

the man. As most of these old Custom-House officers had good traits,

and as my position in reference to them, being paternal and

protective, was favorable to the growth of friendly sentiments, I soon

grew to like them all. It was pleasant, in the summer forenoons,—when

the fervent heat, that almost liquefied the rest of the human family,

merely communicated a genial warmth to their half-torpid systems,—it

was pleasant to hear them chatting in the back entry, a row of them

all tipped against the wall, as usual; while the frozen witticisms of

past generations were thawed out, and came bubbling with laughter from

their lips. Externally, the jollity of aged men has much in common

with the mirth of children; the intellect, any more than a deep sense

of humor, has little to do with the matter; it is, with both, a gleam

that plays upon the surface, and imparts a sunny and cheery aspect

alike to the green branch, and gray, mouldering trunk. In one case,

however, it is real sunshine; in the other, it more resembles the

phosphorescent glow of decaying wood.

It would be sad injustice, the reader must understand, to represent

all my excellent old friends as in their dotage. In the first place,

my coadjutors were not invariably old; there were men among them in

their strength and prime, of marked ability and energy, and altogether

superior to the sluggish and dependent mode of life on which their

evil stars had cast them. Then, moreover, the white locks of age were

sometimes found to be the thatch of an intellectual tenement in good

repair. But, as respects the majority of my corps of veterans, there

will be no wrong done, if I characterize them generally as a set of

wearisome old souls, who had gathered nothing worth preservation from

their varied experience of life. They seemed to have flung away all

the golden grain of practical wisdom, which they had enjoyed so many

opportunities of harvesting, and most carefully to have stored their

memories with the husks. They spoke with far more interest and unction

of their morning’s breakfast, or yesterday’s, to-day’s, or to-morrow’s

dinner, than of the shipwreck of forty or fifty years ago, and all the

world’s wonders which they had witnessed with their youthful eyes.

The father of the Custom-House—the patriarch, not only of this little

squad of officials, but, I am bold to say, of the respectable body of

tide-waiters all over the United States—was a certain permanent

Inspector. He might truly be termed a legitimate son of the revenue

system, dyed in the wool, or, rather, born in the purple; since his

sire, a Revolutionary colonel, and formerly collector of the port, had

created an office for him, and appointed him to fill it, at a period

of the early ages which few living men can now remember. This

Inspector, when I first knew him, was a man of fourscore years, or

thereabouts, and certainly one of the most wonderful specimens of

winter-green that you would be likely to discover in a lifetime’s

search. With his florid cheek, his compact figure, smartly arrayed in

a bright-buttoned blue coat, his brisk and vigorous step, and his hale

and hearty aspect, altogether he seemed—not young, indeed—but a kind

of new contrivance of Mother Nature in the shape of man, whom age and

infirmity had no business to touch. His voice and laugh, which

perpetually re-echoed through the Custom-House, had nothing of the

tremulous quaver and cackle of an old man’s utterance; they came

strutting out of his lungs, like the crow of a cock, or the blast of a

clarion. Looking at him merely as an animal,—and there was very

little else to look at,—he was a most satisfactory object, from the

thorough healthfulness and wholesomeness of his system, and his

capacity, at that extreme age, to enjoy all, or nearly all, the

delights which he had ever aimed at, or conceived of. The careless

security of his life in the Custom-House, on a regular income, and

with but slight and infrequent apprehensions of removal, had no doubt

contributed to make time pass lightly over him. The original and more

potent causes, however, lay in the rare perfection of his animal

nature, the moderate proportion of intellect, and the very trifling

admixture of moral and spiritual ingredients; these latter qualities,

indeed, being in barely enough measure to keep the old gentleman from