derelict. Already, however, the legal tongues are wagging, and one young

law student is loudly asserting that the rights of the owner are already

completely sacrificed, his property being held in contravention of the

statutes of mortmain, since the tiller, as emblemship, if not proof, of

delegated possession, is held in a _dead hand_. It is needless to say

that the dead steersman has been reverently removed from the place where

he held his honourable watch and ward till death--a steadfastness as

noble as that of the young Casabianca--and placed in the mortuary to

await inquest.

Already the sudden storm is passing, and its fierceness is abating;

crowds are scattering homeward, and the sky is beginning to redden over

the Yorkshire wolds. I shall send, in time for your next issue, further

details of the derelict ship which found her way so miraculously into

harbour in the storm.

_Whitby_

_9 August._--The sequel to the strange arrival of the derelict in the

storm last night is almost more startling than the thing itself. It

turns out that the schooner is a Russian from Varna, and is called the

_Demeter_. She is almost entirely in ballast of silver sand, with only a

small amount of cargo--a number of great wooden boxes filled with mould.

This cargo was consigned to a Whitby solicitor, Mr. S. F. Billington, of

7, The Crescent, who this morning went aboard and formally took

possession of the goods consigned to him. The Russian consul, too,

acting for the charter-party, took formal possession of the ship, and

paid all harbour dues, etc. Nothing is talked about here to-day except

the strange coincidence; the officials of the Board of Trade have been

most exacting in seeing that every compliance has been made with

existing regulations. As the matter is to be a “nine days’ wonder,” they

are evidently determined that there shall be no cause of after

complaint. A good deal of interest was abroad concerning the dog which

landed when the ship struck, and more than a few of the members of the

S. P. C. A., which is very strong in Whitby, have tried to befriend the

animal. To the general disappointment, however, it was not to be found;

it seems to have disappeared entirely from the town. It may be that it

was frightened and made its way on to the moors, where it is still

hiding in terror. There are some who look with dread on such a

possibility, lest later on it should in itself become a danger, for it

is evidently a fierce brute. Early this morning a large dog, a half-bred

mastiff belonging to a coal merchant close to Tate Hill Pier, was found

dead in the roadway opposite to its master’s yard. It had been fighting,

and manifestly had had a savage opponent, for its throat was torn away,

and its belly was slit open as if with a savage claw.

 * * * * *

_Later._--By the kindness of the Board of Trade inspector, I have been

permitted to look over the log-book of the _Demeter_, which was in order

up to within three days, but contained nothing of special interest

except as to facts of missing men. The greatest interest, however, is

with regard to the paper found in the bottle, which was to-day produced

at the inquest; and a more strange narrative than the two between them

unfold it has not been my lot to come across. As there is no motive for

concealment, I am permitted to use them, and accordingly send you a

rescript, simply omitting technical details of seamanship and

supercargo. It almost seems as though the captain had been seized with

some kind of mania before he had got well into blue water, and that

this had developed persistently throughout the voyage. Of course my

statement must be taken _cum grano_, since I am writing from the

dictation of a clerk of the Russian consul, who kindly translated for

me, time being short.

 LOG OF THE “DEMETER.”

_Varna to Whitby._

_Written 18 July, things so strange happening, that I shall keep

accurate note henceforth till we land._

 * * * * *

On 6 July we finished taking in cargo, silver sand and boxes of earth.

At noon set sail. East wind, fresh. Crew, five hands ... two mates,

cook, and myself (captain).

 * * * * *

On 11 July at dawn entered Bosphorus. Boarded by Turkish Customs

officers. Backsheesh. All correct. Under way at 4 p. m.

 * * * * *

On 12 July through Dardanelles. More Customs officers and flagboat of

guarding squadron. Backsheesh again. Work of officers thorough, but