Bellingham, for the last few moments, had kept an anxious eye upon

him. He now left his own place in the procession, and advanced to give

assistance; judging, from Mr. Dimmesdale’s aspect, that he must

otherwise inevitably fall. But there was something in the latter’s

expression that warned back the magistrate, although a man not readily

obeying the vague intimations that pass from one spirit to another.

The crowd, meanwhile, looked on with awe and wonder. This earthly

faintness was, in their view, only another phase of the minister’s

celestial strength; nor would it have seemed a miracle too high to be

wrought for one so holy, had he ascended before their eyes, waxing

dimmer and brighter, and fading at last into the light of heaven.

He turned towards the scaffold, and stretched forth his arms.

“Hester,” said he, “come hither! Come, my little Pearl!”

It was a ghastly look with which he regarded them; but there was

something at once tender and strangely triumphant in it. The child,

with the bird-like motion which was one of her characteristics, flew

to him, and clasped her arms about his knees. Hester Prynne—slowly,

as if impelled by inevitable fate, and against her strongest

will—likewise drew near, but paused before she reached him. At this

instant, old Roger Chillingworth thrust himself through the

crowd,—or, perhaps, so dark, disturbed, and evil, was his look, he

rose up out of some nether region,—to snatch back his victim from

what he sought to do! Be that as it might, the old man rushed forward,

and caught the minister by the arm.

“Madman, hold! what is your purpose?” whispered he. “Wave back that

woman! Cast off this child! All shall be well! Do not blacken your

fame, and perish in dishonor! I can yet save you! Would you bring

infamy on your sacred profession?”

“Ha, tempter! Methinks thou art too late!” answered the minister,

encountering his eye, fearfully, but firmly. “Thy power is not what it

was! With God’s help, I shall escape thee now!”

He again extended his hand to the woman of the scarlet letter.

“Hester Prynne,” cried he, with a piercing earnestness, “in the name

of Him, so terrible and so merciful, who gives me grace, at this last

moment, to do what—for my own heavy sin and miserable agony—I

withheld myself from doing seven years ago, come hither now, and twine

thy strength about me! Thy strength, Hester; but let it be guided by

the will which God hath granted me! This wretched and wronged old man

is opposing it with all his might!—with all his own might, and the

fiend’s! Come, Hester, come! Support me up yonder scaffold!”

The crowd was in a tumult. The men of rank and dignity, who stood more

immediately around the clergyman, were so taken by surprise, and so

perplexed as to the purport of what they saw,—unable to receive the

explanation which most readily presented itself, or to imagine any

other,—that they remained silent and inactive spectators of the

judgment which Providence seemed about to work. They beheld the

minister, leaning on Hester’s shoulder, and supported by her arm

around him, approach the scaffold, and ascend its steps; while still

the little hand of the sin-born child was clasped in his. Old Roger

Chillingworth followed, as one intimately connected with the drama of

guilt and sorrow in which they had all been actors, and well entitled,

therefore, to be present at its closing scene.

“Hadst thou sought the whole earth over,” said he, looking darkly at

the clergyman, “there was no one place so secret,—no high place nor

lowly place, where thou couldst have escaped me,—save on this very

scaffold!”

“Thanks be to Him who hath led me hither!” answered the minister.

Yet he trembled, and turned to Hester with an expression of doubt and

anxiety in his eyes, not the less evidently betrayed, that there was a

feeble smile upon his lips.

“Is not this better,” murmured he, “than what we dreamed of in the

forest?”

“I know not! I know not!” she hurriedly replied. “Better? Yea; so we

may both die, and little Pearl die with us!”

“For thee and Pearl, be it as God shall order,” said the minister;

“and God is merciful! Let me now do the will which he hath made plain

before my sight. For, Hester, I am a dying man. So let me make haste

to take my shame upon me!”