“We can do nothing as yet. Wait and see.”

CHAPTER XIII

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY--_continued_.

The funeral was arranged for the next succeeding day, so that Lucy and

her mother might be buried together. I attended to all the ghastly

formalities, and the urbane undertaker proved that his staff were

afflicted--or blessed--with something of his own obsequious suavity.

Even the woman who performed the last offices for the dead remarked to

me, in a confidential, brother-professional way, when she had come out

from the death-chamber:--

“She makes a very beautiful corpse, sir. It’s quite a privilege to

attend on her. It’s not too much to say that she will do credit to our

establishment!”

I noticed that Van Helsing never kept far away. This was possible from

the disordered state of things in the household. There were no relatives

at hand; and as Arthur had to be back the next day to attend at his

father’s funeral, we were unable to notify any one who should have been

bidden. Under the circumstances, Van Helsing and I took it upon

ourselves to examine papers, etc. He insisted upon looking over Lucy’s

papers himself. I asked him why, for I feared that he, being a

foreigner, might not be quite aware of English legal requirements, and

so might in ignorance make some unnecessary trouble. He answered me:--

“I know; I know. You forget that I am a lawyer as well as a doctor. But

this is not altogether for the law. You knew that, when you avoided the

coroner. I have more than him to avoid. There may be papers more--such

as this.”

As he spoke he took from his pocket-book the memorandum which had been

in Lucy’s breast, and which she had torn in her sleep.

“When you find anything of the solicitor who is for the late Mrs.

Westenra, seal all her papers, and write him to-night. For me, I watch

here in the room and in Miss Lucy’s old room all night, and I myself

search for what may be. It is not well that her very thoughts go into

the hands of strangers.”

I went on with my part of the work, and in another half hour had found

the name and address of Mrs. Westenra’s solicitor and had written to

him. All the poor lady’s papers were in order; explicit directions

regarding the place of burial were given. I had hardly sealed the

letter, when, to my surprise, Van Helsing walked into the room,

saying:--

“Can I help you, friend John? I am free, and if I may, my service is to

you.”

“Have you got what you looked for?” I asked, to which he replied:--

“I did not look for any specific thing. I only hoped to find, and find I

have, all that there was--only some letters and a few memoranda, and a

diary new begun. But I have them here, and we shall for the present say

nothing of them. I shall see that poor lad to-morrow evening, and, with

his sanction, I shall use some.”

When we had finished the work in hand, he said to me:--

“And now, friend John, I think we may to bed. We want sleep, both you

and I, and rest to recuperate. To-morrow we shall have much to do, but

for the to-night there is no need of us. Alas!”

Before turning in we went to look at poor Lucy. The undertaker had

certainly done his work well, for the room was turned into a small

_chapelle ardente_. There was a wilderness of beautiful white flowers,

and death was made as little repulsive as might be. The end of the

winding-sheet was laid over the face; when the Professor bent over and

turned it gently back, we both started at the beauty before us, the tall

wax candles showing a sufficient light to note it well. All Lucy’s

loveliness had come back to her in death, and the hours that had passed,

instead of leaving traces of “decay’s effacing fingers,” had but

restored the beauty of life, till positively I could not believe my eyes

that I was looking at a corpse.

The Professor looked sternly grave. He had not loved her as I had, and

there was no need for tears in his eyes. He said to me: “Remain till I

return,” and left the room. He came back with a handful of wild garlic

from the box waiting in the hall, but which had not been opened, and