The shell burst clean in the face of the Thing. The hood bulged,

flashed, was whirled off in a dozen tattered fragments of red flesh and

glittering metal.

“Hit!” shouted I, with something between a scream and a cheer.

I heard answering shouts from the people in the water about me. I could

have leaped out of the water with that momentary exultation.

The decapitated colossus reeled like a drunken giant; but it did not

fall over. It recovered its balance by a miracle, and, no longer

heeding its steps and with the camera that fired the Heat-Ray now

rigidly upheld, it reeled swiftly upon Shepperton. The living

intelligence, the Martian within the hood, was slain and splashed to

the four winds of heaven, and the Thing was now but a mere intricate

device of metal whirling to destruction. It drove along in a straight

line, incapable of guidance. It struck the tower of Shepperton Church,

smashing it down as the impact of a battering ram might have done,

swerved aside, blundered on and collapsed with tremendous force into

the river out of my sight.

A violent explosion shook the air, and a spout of water, steam, mud,

and shattered metal shot far up into the sky. As the camera of the

Heat-Ray hit the water, the latter had immediately flashed into steam.

In another moment a huge wave, like a muddy tidal bore but almost

scaldingly hot, came sweeping round the bend upstream. I saw people

struggling shorewards, and heard their screaming and shouting faintly

above the seething and roar of the Martian’s collapse.

For a moment I heeded nothing of the heat, forgot the patent need of

self-preservation. I splashed through the tumultuous water, pushing

aside a man in black to do so, until I could see round the bend. Half a

dozen deserted boats pitched aimlessly upon the confusion of the waves.

The fallen Martian came into sight downstream, lying across the river,

and for the most part submerged.

Thick clouds of steam were pouring off the wreckage, and through the

tumultuously whirling wisps I could see, intermittently and vaguely,

the gigantic limbs churning the water and flinging a splash and spray

of mud and froth into the air. The tentacles swayed and struck like

living arms, and, save for the helpless purposelessness of these

movements, it was as if some wounded thing were struggling for its life

amid the waves. Enormous quantities of a ruddy-brown fluid were

spurting up in noisy jets out of the machine.

My attention was diverted from this death flurry by a furious yelling,

like that of the thing called a siren in our manufacturing towns. A

man, knee-deep near the towing path, shouted inaudibly to me and

pointed. Looking back, I saw the other Martians advancing with gigantic

strides down the riverbank from the direction of Chertsey. The

Shepperton guns spoke this time unavailingly.

At that I ducked at once under water, and, holding my breath until

movement was an agony, blundered painfully ahead under the surface as

long as I could. The water was in a tumult about me, and rapidly

growing hotter.

When for a moment I raised my head to take breath and throw the hair

and water from my eyes, the steam was rising in a whirling white fog

that at first hid the Martians altogether. The noise was deafening.

Then I saw them dimly, colossal figures of grey, magnified by the mist.

They had passed by me, and two were stooping over the frothing,

tumultuous ruins of their comrade.

The third and fourth stood beside him in the water, one perhaps two

hundred yards from me, the other towards Laleham. The generators of the

Heat-Rays waved high, and the hissing beams smote down this way and

that.

The air was full of sound, a deafening and confusing conflict of

noises—the clangorous din of the Martians, the crash of falling houses,

the thud of trees, fences, sheds flashing into flame, and the crackling

and roaring of fire. Dense black smoke was leaping up to mingle with

the steam from the river, and as the Heat-Ray went to and fro over

Weybridge its impact was marked by flashes of incandescent white, that

gave place at once to a smoky dance of lurid flames. The nearer houses

still stood intact, awaiting their fate, shadowy, faint and pallid in

the steam, with the fire behind them going to and fro.

For a moment perhaps I stood there, breast-high in the almost boiling

water, dumbfounded at my position, hopeless of escape. Through the reek

I could see the people who had been with me in the river scrambling out

of the water through the reeds, like little frogs hurrying through

grass from the advance of a man, or running to and fro in utter dismay

on the towing path.

Then suddenly the white flashes of the Heat-Ray came leaping towards

me. The houses caved in as they dissolved at its touch, and darted out

flames; the trees changed to fire with a roar. The Ray flickered up and