all over. That game’s up. We’re beat.”

“But if that is so, what is there to live for?”

The artilleryman looked at me for a moment.

“There won’t be any more blessed concerts for a million years or so;

there won’t be any Royal Academy of Arts, and no nice little feeds at

restaurants. If it’s amusement you’re after, I reckon the game is up.

If you’ve got any drawing-room manners or a dislike to eating peas with

a knife or dropping aitches, you’d better chuck ’em away. They ain’t no

further use.”

“You mean——”

“I mean that men like me are going on living—for the sake of the breed.

I tell you, I’m grim set on living. And if I’m not mistaken, you’ll

show what insides _you’ve_ got, too, before long. We aren’t going to be

exterminated. And I don’t mean to be caught either, and tamed and

fattened and bred like a thundering ox. Ugh! Fancy those brown

creepers!”

“You don’t mean to say——”

“I do. I’m going on, under their feet. I’ve got it planned; I’ve

thought it out. We men are beat. We don’t know enough. We’ve got to

learn before we’ve got a chance. And we’ve got to live and keep

independent while we learn. See! That’s what has to be done.”

I stared, astonished, and stirred profoundly by the man’s resolution.

“Great God!” cried I. “But you are a man indeed!” And suddenly I

gripped his hand.

“Eh!” he said, with his eyes shining. “I’ve thought it out, eh?”

“Go on,” I said.

“Well, those who mean to escape their catching must get ready. I’m

getting ready. Mind you, it isn’t all of us that are made for wild

beasts; and that’s what it’s got to be. That’s why I watched you. I had

my doubts. You’re slender. I didn’t know that it was you, you see, or

just how you’d been buried. All these—the sort of people that lived in

these houses, and all those damn little clerks that used to live down

_that_ way—they’d be no good. They haven’t any spirit in them—no proud

dreams and no proud lusts; and a man who hasn’t one or the other—Lord!

What is he but funk and precautions? They just used to skedaddle off to

work—I’ve seen hundreds of ’em, bit of breakfast in hand, running wild

and shining to catch their little season-ticket train, for fear they’d

get dismissed if they didn’t; working at businesses they were afraid to

take the trouble to understand; skedaddling back for fear they wouldn’t

be in time for dinner; keeping indoors after dinner for fear of the

back streets, and sleeping with the wives they married, not because

they wanted them, but because they had a bit of money that would make

for safety in their one little miserable skedaddle through the world.

Lives insured and a bit invested for fear of accidents. And on

Sundays—fear of the hereafter. As if hell was built for rabbits! Well,

the Martians will just be a godsend to these. Nice roomy cages,

fattening food, careful breeding, no worry. After a week or so chasing

about the fields and lands on empty stomachs, they’ll come and be

caught cheerful. They’ll be quite glad after a bit. They’ll wonder what

people did before there were Martians to take care of them. And the bar

loafers, and mashers, and singers—I can imagine them. I can imagine

them,” he said, with a sort of sombre gratification. “There’ll be any

amount of sentiment and religion loose among them. There’s hundreds of

things I saw with my eyes that I’ve only begun to see clearly these

last few days. There’s lots will take things as they are—fat and

stupid; and lots will be worried by a sort of feeling that it’s all

wrong, and that they ought to be doing something. Now whenever things

are so that a lot of people feel they ought to be doing something, the