had happened—or making a prophetic lamentation about something that

was yet to happen—within the verge of the dismal forest. So Pearl,

who had enough of shadow in her own little life, chose to break off

all acquaintance with this repining brook. She set herself, therefore,

to gathering violets and wood-anemones, and some scarlet columbines

that she found growing in the crevices of a high rock.

When her elf-child had departed, Hester Prynne made a step or two

towards the track that led through the forest, but still remained

under the deep shadow of the trees. She beheld the minister advancing

along the path, entirely alone, and leaning on a staff which he had

cut by the wayside. He looked haggard and feeble, and betrayed a

nerveless despondency in his air, which had never so remarkably

characterized him in his walks about the settlement, nor in any other

situation where he deemed himself liable to notice. Here it was

wofully visible, in this intense seclusion of the forest, which of

itself would have been a heavy trial to the spirits. There was a

listlessness in his gait; as if he saw no reason for taking one step

farther, nor felt any desire to do so, but would have been glad, could

he be glad of anything, to fling himself down at the root of the

nearest tree, and lie there passive, forevermore. The leaves might

bestrew him, and the soil gradually accumulate and form a little

hillock over his frame, no matter whether there were life in it or no.

Death was too definite an object to be wished for, or avoided.

To Hester’s eye, the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale exhibited no symptom of

positive and vivacious suffering, except that, as little Pearl had

remarked, he kept his hand over his heart.

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 XVII.

 THE PASTOR AND HIS PARISHIONER.

Slowly as the minister walked, he had almost gone by, before Hester

Prynne could gather voice enough to attract his observation. At

length, she succeeded.

“Arthur Dimmesdale!” she said, faintly at first; then louder, but

hoarsely. “Arthur Dimmesdale!”

“Who speaks?” answered the minister.

Gathering himself quickly up, he stood more erect, like a man taken by

surprise in a mood to which he was reluctant to have witnesses.

Throwing his eyes anxiously in the direction of the voice, he

indistinctly beheld a form under the trees, clad in garments so

sombre, and so little relieved from the gray twilight into which the

clouded sky and the heavy foliage had darkened the noontide, that he

knew not whether it were a woman or a shadow. It may be, that his

pathway through life was haunted thus, by a spectre that had stolen

out from among his thoughts.

He made a step nigher, and discovered the scarlet letter.

“Hester! Hester Prynne!” said he. “Is it thou? Art thou in life?”

“Even so!” she answered. “In such life as has been mine these seven

years past! And thou, Arthur Dimmesdale, dost thou yet live?”

It was no wonder that they thus questioned one another’s actual and

bodily existence, and even doubted of their own. So strangely did they

meet, in the dim wood, that it was like the first encounter, in the

world beyond the grave, of two spirits who had been intimately

connected in their former life, but now stood coldly shuddering, in

mutual dread; as not yet familiar with their state, nor wonted to the

companionship of disembodied beings. Each a ghost, and awe-stricken at

the other ghost! They were awe-stricken likewise at themselves;

because the crisis flung back to them their consciousness, and

revealed to each heart its history and experience, as life never does,

except at such breathless epochs. The soul beheld its features in the

mirror of the passing moment. It was with fear, and tremulously, and,

as it were, by a slow, reluctant necessity, that Arthur Dimmesdale put

forth his hand, chill as death, and touched the chill hand of Hester

Prynne. The grasp, cold as it was, took away what was dreariest in the

interview. They now felt themselves, at least, inhabitants of the same

sphere.

Without a word more spoken,—neither he nor she assuming the guidance,

but with an unexpressed consent,—they glided back into the shadow of

the woods, whence Hester had emerged, and sat down on the heap of moss

where she and Pearl had before been sitting. When they found voice to

speak, it was, at first, only to utter remarks and inquiries such as

any two acquaintance might have made, about the gloomy sky, the

threatening storm, and, next, the health of each. Thus they went

onward, not boldly, but step by step, into the themes that were