indeed happened? I could not credit it.

I rose and walked unsteadily up the steep incline of the bridge. My

mind was blank wonder. My muscles and nerves seemed drained of their

strength. I dare say I staggered drunkenly. A head rose over the arch,

and the figure of a workman carrying a basket appeared. Beside him ran

a little boy. He passed me, wishing me good night. I was minded to

speak to him, but did not. I answered his greeting with a meaningless

mumble and went on over the bridge.

Over the Maybury arch a train, a billowing tumult of white, firelit

smoke, and a long caterpillar of lighted windows, went flying

south—clatter, clatter, clap, rap, and it had gone. A dim group of

people talked in the gate of one of the houses in the pretty little row

of gables that was called Oriental Terrace. It was all so real and so

familiar. And that behind me! It was frantic, fantastic! Such things, I

told myself, could not be.

Perhaps I am a man of exceptional moods. I do not know how far my

experience is common. At times I suffer from the strangest sense of

detachment from myself and the world about me; I seem to watch it all

from the outside, from somewhere inconceivably remote, out of time, out

of space, out of the stress and tragedy of it all. This feeling was

very strong upon me that night. Here was another side to my dream.

But the trouble was the blank incongruity of this serenity and the

swift death flying yonder, not two miles away. There was a noise of

business from the gasworks, and the electric lamps were all alight. I

stopped at the group of people.

“What news from the common?” said I.

There were two men and a woman at the gate.

“Eh?” said one of the men, turning.

“What news from the common?” I said.

“Ain’t yer just _been_ there?” asked the men.

“People seem fair silly about the common,” said the woman over the

gate. “What’s it all abart?”

“Haven’t you heard of the men from Mars?” said I; “the creatures from

Mars?”

“Quite enough,” said the woman over the gate. “Thenks”; and all three

of them laughed.

I felt foolish and angry. I tried and found I could not tell them what

I had seen. They laughed again at my broken sentences.

“You’ll hear more yet,” I said, and went on to my home.

I startled my wife at the doorway, so haggard was I. I went into the

dining room, sat down, drank some wine, and so soon as I could collect

myself sufficiently I told her the things I had seen. The dinner, which

was a cold one, had already been served, and remained neglected on the

table while I told my story.

“There is one thing,” I said, to allay the fears I had aroused; “they

are the most sluggish things I ever saw crawl. They may keep the pit

and kill people who come near them, but they cannot get out of it. . .

. But the horror of them!”

“Don’t, dear!” said my wife, knitting her brows and putting her hand on

mine.

“Poor Ogilvy!” I said. “To think he may be lying dead there!”

My wife at least did not find my experience incredible. When I saw how

deadly white her face was, I ceased abruptly.

“They may come here,” she said again and again.

I pressed her to take wine, and tried to reassure her.

“They can scarcely move,” I said.

I began to comfort her and myself by repeating all that Ogilvy had told

me of the impossibility of the Martians establishing themselves on the

earth. In particular I laid stress on the gravitational difficulty. On

the surface of the earth the force of gravity is three times what it is

on the surface of Mars. A Martian, therefore, would weigh three times

more than on Mars, albeit his muscular strength would be the same. His

own body would be a cope of lead to him, therefore. That, indeed, was