the schoolroom to prepare for the world of life. I want you to see now,

and with the eyes of a very happy wife, whither duty has led me; so that

in your own married life you too may be all happy as I am. My dear,

please Almighty God, your life may be all it promises: a long day of

sunshine, with no harsh wind, no forgetting duty, no distrust. I must

not wish you no pain, for that can never be; but I do hope you will be

_always_ as happy as I am _now_. Good-bye, my dear. I shall post this at

once, and, perhaps, write you very soon again. I must stop, for Jonathan

is waking--I must attend to my husband!

“Your ever-loving

“MINA HARKER.”

_Letter, Lucy Westenra to Mina Harker._

“_Whitby, 30 August._

“My dearest Mina,--

“Oceans of love and millions of kisses, and may you soon be in your own

home with your husband. I wish you could be coming home soon enough to

stay with us here. The strong air would soon restore Jonathan; it has

quite restored me. I have an appetite like a cormorant, am full of

life, and sleep well. You will be glad to know that I have quite given

up walking in my sleep. I think I have not stirred out of my bed for a

week, that is when I once got into it at night. Arthur says I am getting

fat. By the way, I forgot to tell you that Arthur is here. We have such

walks and drives, and rides, and rowing, and tennis, and fishing

together; and I love him more than ever. He _tells_ me that he loves me

more, but I doubt that, for at first he told me that he couldn’t love me

more than he did then. But this is nonsense. There he is, calling to me.

So no more just at present from your loving

“LUCY.

“P. S.--Mother sends her love. She seems better, poor dear.

“P. P. S.--We are to be married on 28 September.”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_20 August._--The case of Renfield grows even more interesting. He has

now so far quieted that there are spells of cessation from his passion.

For the first week after his attack he was perpetually violent. Then one

night, just as the moon rose, he grew quiet, and kept murmuring to

himself: “Now I can wait; now I can wait.” The attendant came to tell

me, so I ran down at once to have a look at him. He was still in the

strait-waistcoat and in the padded room, but the suffused look had gone

from his face, and his eyes had something of their old pleading--I might

almost say, “cringing”--softness. I was satisfied with his present

condition, and directed him to be relieved. The attendants hesitated,

but finally carried out my wishes without protest. It was a strange

thing that the patient had humour enough to see their distrust, for,

coming close to me, he said in a whisper, all the while looking

furtively at them:--

“They think I could hurt you! Fancy _me_ hurting _you_! The fools!”

It was soothing, somehow, to the feelings to find myself dissociated

even in the mind of this poor madman from the others; but all the same I

do not follow his thought. Am I to take it that I have anything in

common with him, so that we are, as it were, to stand together; or has

he to gain from me some good so stupendous that my well-being is needful

to him? I must find out later on. To-night he will not speak. Even the

offer of a kitten or even a full-grown cat will not tempt him. He will

only say: “I don’t take any stock in cats. I have more to think of now,

and I can wait; I can wait.”

After a while I left him. The attendant tells me that he was quiet

until just before dawn, and that then he began to get uneasy, and at

length violent, until at last he fell into a paroxysm which exhausted

him so that he swooned into a sort of coma.

 * * * * *

... Three nights has the same thing happened--violent all day then quiet