snow:--

“My true friend, from the bottom of my broken heart I thank you. Tell me

what I am to do, and I shall not falter!” Van Helsing laid a hand on his

shoulder, and said:--

“Brave lad! A moment’s courage, and it is done. This stake must be

driven through her. It will be a fearful ordeal--be not deceived in

that--but it will be only a short time, and you will then rejoice more

than your pain was great; from this grim tomb you will emerge as though

you tread on air. But you must not falter when once you have begun. Only

think that we, your true friends, are round you, and that we pray for

you all the time.”

“Go on,” said Arthur hoarsely. “Tell me what I am to do.”

“Take this stake in your left hand, ready to place the point over the

heart, and the hammer in your right. Then when we begin our prayer for

the dead--I shall read him, I have here the book, and the others shall

follow--strike in God’s name, that so all may be well with the dead that

we love and that the Un-Dead pass away.”

Arthur took the stake and the hammer, and when once his mind was set on

action his hands never trembled nor even quivered. Van Helsing opened

his missal and began to read, and Quincey and I followed as well as we

could. Arthur placed the point over the heart, and as I looked I could

see its dint in the white flesh. Then he struck with all his might.

The Thing in the coffin writhed; and a hideous, blood-curdling screech

came from the opened red lips. The body shook and quivered and twisted

in wild contortions; the sharp white teeth champed together till the

lips were cut, and the mouth was smeared with a crimson foam. But Arthur

never faltered. He looked like a figure of Thor as his untrembling arm

rose and fell, driving deeper and deeper the mercy-bearing stake, whilst

the blood from the pierced heart welled and spurted up around it. His

face was set, and high duty seemed to shine through it; the sight of it

gave us courage so that our voices seemed to ring through the little

vault.

And then the writhing and quivering of the body became less, and the

teeth seemed to champ, and the face to quiver. Finally it lay still. The

terrible task was over.

The hammer fell from Arthur’s hand. He reeled and would have fallen had

we not caught him. The great drops of sweat sprang from his forehead,

and his breath came in broken gasps. It had indeed been an awful strain

on him; and had he not been forced to his task by more than human

considerations he could never have gone through with it. For a few

minutes we were so taken up with him that we did not look towards the

coffin. When we did, however, a murmur of startled surprise ran from one

to the other of us. We gazed so eagerly that Arthur rose, for he had

been seated on the ground, and came and looked too; and then a glad,

strange light broke over his face and dispelled altogether the gloom of

horror that lay upon it.

There, in the coffin lay no longer the foul Thing that we had so dreaded

and grown to hate that the work of her destruction was yielded as a

privilege to the one best entitled to it, but Lucy as we had seen her in

her life, with her face of unequalled sweetness and purity. True that

there were there, as we had seen them in life, the traces of care and

pain and waste; but these were all dear to us, for they marked her truth

to what we knew. One and all we felt that the holy calm that lay like

sunshine over the wasted face and form was only an earthly token and

symbol of the calm that was to reign for ever.

Van Helsing came and laid his hand on Arthur’s shoulder, and said to

him:--

“And now, Arthur my friend, dear lad, am I not forgiven?”

The reaction of the terrible strain came as he took the old man’s hand

in his, and raising it to his lips, pressed it, and said:--

“Forgiven! God bless you that you have given my dear one her soul again,

and me peace.” He put his hands on the Professor’s shoulder, and laying

his head on his breast, cried for a while silently, whilst we stood

unmoving. When he raised his head Van Helsing said to him:--

“And now, my child, you may kiss her. Kiss her dead lips if you will, as

she would have you to, if for her to choose. For she is not a grinning

devil now--not any more a foul Thing for all eternity. No longer she is

the devil’s Un-Dead. She is God’s true dead, whose soul is with Him!”