world seemed to vanish, leaving only him and her. Such an interview,

perhaps, would have been more terrible than even to meet him as she

now did, with the hot, mid-day sun burning down upon her face, and

lighting up its shame; with the scarlet token of infamy on her breast;

with the sin-born infant in her arms; with a whole people, drawn forth

as to a festival, staring at the features that should have been seen

only in the quiet gleam of the fireside, in the happy shadow of a

home, or beneath a matronly veil, at church. Dreadful as it was, she

was conscious of a shelter in the presence of these thousand

witnesses. It was better to stand thus, with so many betwixt him and

her, than to greet him, face to face, they two alone. She fled for

refuge, as it were, to the public exposure, and dreaded the moment

when its protection should be withdrawn from her. Involved in these

thoughts, she scarcely heard a voice behind her, until it had repeated

her name more than once, in a loud and solemn tone, audible to the

whole multitude.

“Hearken unto me, Hester Prynne!” said the voice.

It has already been noticed, that directly over the platform on which

Hester Prynne stood was a kind of balcony, or open gallery, appended

to the meeting-house. It was the place whence proclamations were wont

to be made, amidst an assemblage of the magistracy, with all the

ceremonial that attended such public observances in those days. Here,

to witness the scene which we are describing, sat Governor Bellingham

himself, with four sergeants about his chair, bearing halberds, as a

guard of honor. He wore a dark feather in his hat, a border of

embroidery on his cloak, and a black velvet tunic beneath; a

gentleman advanced in years, with a hard experience written in his

wrinkles. He was not ill fitted to be the head and representative of a

community, which owed its origin and progress, and its present state

of development, not to the impulses of youth, but to the stern and

tempered energies of manhood, and the sombre sagacity of age;

accomplishing so much, precisely because it imagined and hoped so

little. The other eminent characters, by whom the chief ruler was

surrounded, were distinguished by a dignity of mien, belonging to a

period when the forms of authority were felt to possess the sacredness

of Divine institutions. They were, doubtless, good men, just and sage.

But, out of the whole human family, it would not have been easy to

select the same number of wise and virtuous persons, who should be

less capable of sitting in judgment on an erring woman’s heart, and

disentangling its mesh of good and evil, than the sages of rigid

aspect towards whom Hester Prynne now turned her face. She seemed

conscious, indeed, that whatever sympathy she might expect lay in the

larger and warmer heart of the multitude; for, as she lifted her eyes

towards the balcony, the unhappy woman grew pale and trembled.

The voice which had called her attention was that of the reverend and

famous John Wilson, the eldest clergyman of Boston, a great scholar,

like most of his contemporaries in the profession, and withal a man of

kind and genial spirit. This last attribute, however, had been less

carefully developed than his intellectual gifts, and was, in truth,

rather a matter of shame than self-congratulation with him. There he

stood, with a border of grizzled locks beneath his skull-cap; while

his gray eyes, accustomed to the shaded light of his study, were

winking, like those of Hester’s infant, in the unadulterated

sunshine. He looked like the darkly engraved portraits which we see

prefixed to old volumes of sermons; and had no more right than one of

those portraits would have, to step forth, as he now did, and meddle

with a question of human guilt, passion, and anguish.

“Hester Prynne,” said the clergyman, “I have striven with my young

brother here, under whose preaching of the word you have been

privileged to sit,”—here Mr. Wilson laid his hand on the shoulder of

a pale young man beside him,—“I have sought, I say, to persuade this

godly youth, that he should deal with you, here in the face of Heaven,

and before these wise and upright rulers, and in hearing of all the

people, as touching the vileness and blackness of your sin. Knowing

your natural temper better than I, he could the better judge what

arguments to use, whether of tenderness or terror, such as might

prevail over your hardness and obstinacy; insomuch that you should no

longer hide the name of him who tempted you to this grievous fall. But

he opposes to me (with a young man’s over-softness, albeit wise beyond

his years), that it were wronging the very nature of woman to force

her to lay open her heart’s secrets in such broad daylight, and in

presence of so great a multitude. Truly, as I sought to convince him,

the shame lay in the commission of the sin, and not in the showing of

it forth. What say you to it, once again, Brother Dimmesdale? Must it

be thou, or I, that shall deal with this poor sinner’s soul?”

There was a murmur among the dignified and reverend occupants of the

balcony; and Governor Bellingham gave expression to its purport,

speaking in an authoritative voice, although tempered with respect

towards the youthful clergyman whom he addressed.