in vain. God grant that no such time may ever come to you to break the

sunshine of your life; but if it should ever come, promise me that you

will let me know.” He was so earnest, and his sorrow was so fresh, that

I felt it would comfort him, so I said:--

“I promise.”

As I came along the corridor I saw Mr. Morris looking out of a window.

He turned as he heard my footsteps. “How is Art?” he said. Then noticing

my red eyes, he went on: “Ah, I see you have been comforting him. Poor

old fellow! he needs it. No one but a woman can help a man when he is in

trouble of the heart; and he had no one to comfort him.”

He bore his own trouble so bravely that my heart bled for him. I saw the

manuscript in his hand, and I knew that when he read it he would realise

how much I knew; so I said to him:--

“I wish I could comfort all who suffer from the heart. Will you let me

be your friend, and will you come to me for comfort if you need it? You

will know, later on, why I speak.” He saw that I was in earnest, and

stooping, took my hand, and raising it to his lips, kissed it. It seemed

but poor comfort to so brave and unselfish a soul, and impulsively I

bent over and kissed him. The tears rose in his eyes, and there was a

momentary choking in his throat; he said quite calmly:--

“Little girl, you will never regret that true-hearted kindness, so long

as ever you live!” Then he went into the study to his friend.

“Little girl!”--the very words he had used to Lucy, and oh, but he

proved himself a friend!

CHAPTER XVIII

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY

_30 September._--I got home at five o’clock, and found that Godalming

and Morris had not only arrived, but had already studied the transcript

of the various diaries and letters which Harker and his wonderful wife

had made and arranged. Harker had not yet returned from his visit to the

carriers’ men, of whom Dr. Hennessey had written to me. Mrs. Harker gave

us a cup of tea, and I can honestly say that, for the first time since I

have lived in it, this old house seemed like _home_. When we had

finished, Mrs. Harker said:--

“Dr. Seward, may I ask a favour? I want to see your patient, Mr.

Renfield. Do let me see him. What you have said of him in your diary

interests me so much!” She looked so appealing and so pretty that I

could not refuse her, and there was no possible reason why I should; so

I took her with me. When I went into the room, I told the man that a

lady would like to see him; to which he simply answered: “Why?”

“She is going through the house, and wants to see every one in it,” I

answered. “Oh, very well,” he said; “let her come in, by all means; but

just wait a minute till I tidy up the place.” His method of tidying was

peculiar: he simply swallowed all the flies and spiders in the boxes

before I could stop him. It was quite evident that he feared, or was

jealous of, some interference. When he had got through his disgusting

task, he said cheerfully: “Let the lady come in,” and sat down on the

edge of his bed with his head down, but with his eyelids raised so that

he could see her as she entered. For a moment I thought that he might

have some homicidal intent; I remembered how quiet he had been just

before he attacked me in my own study, and I took care to stand where I

could seize him at once if he attempted to make a spring at her. She

came into the room with an easy gracefulness which would at once command

the respect of any lunatic--for easiness is one of the qualities mad

people most respect. She walked over to him, smiling pleasantly, and

held out her hand.

“Good-evening, Mr. Renfield,” said she. “You see, I know you, for Dr.

Seward has told me of you.” He made no immediate reply, but eyed her all

over intently with a set frown on his face. This look gave way to one

of wonder, which merged in doubt; then, to my intense astonishment, he

said:--

“You’re not the girl the doctor wanted to marry, are you? You can’t be,

you know, for she’s dead.” Mrs. Harker smiled sweetly as she replied:--

“Oh no! I have a husband of my own, to whom I was married before I ever

saw Dr. Seward, or he me. I am Mrs. Harker.”

“Then what are you doing here?”

“My husband and I are staying on a visit with Dr. Seward.”

“Then don’t stay.”

“But why not?” I thought that this style of conversation might not be