never reached me, about four o’clock, and spent the evening at a music

hall.

In London, also, on Saturday night there was a thunderstorm, and my

brother reached Waterloo in a cab. On the platform from which the

midnight train usually starts he learned, after some waiting, that an

accident prevented trains from reaching Woking that night. The nature

of the accident he could not ascertain; indeed, the railway authorities

did not clearly know at that time. There was very little excitement in

the station, as the officials, failing to realise that anything further

than a breakdown between Byfleet and Woking junction had occurred, were

running the theatre trains which usually passed through Woking round by

Virginia Water or Guildford. They were busy making the necessary

arrangements to alter the route of the Southampton and Portsmouth

Sunday League excursions. A nocturnal newspaper reporter, mistaking my

brother for the traffic manager, to whom he bears a slight resemblance,

waylaid and tried to interview him. Few people, excepting the railway

officials, connected the breakdown with the Martians.

I have read, in another account of these events, that on Sunday morning

“all London was electrified by the news from Woking.” As a matter of

fact, there was nothing to justify that very extravagant phrase. Plenty

of Londoners did not hear of the Martians until the panic of Monday

morning. Those who did took some time to realise all that the hastily

worded telegrams in the Sunday papers conveyed. The majority of people

in London do not read Sunday papers.

The habit of personal security, moreover, is so deeply fixed in the

Londoner’s mind, and startling intelligence so much a matter of course

in the papers, that they could read without any personal tremors:

“About seven o’clock last night the Martians came out of the cylinder,

and, moving about under an armour of metallic shields, have completely

wrecked Woking station with the adjacent houses, and massacred an

entire battalion of the Cardigan Regiment. No details are known. Maxims

have been absolutely useless against their armour; the field guns have

been disabled by them. Flying hussars have been galloping into

Chertsey. The Martians appear to be moving slowly towards Chertsey or

Windsor. Great anxiety prevails in West Surrey, and earthworks are

being thrown up to check the advance Londonward.” That was how the

_Sunday Sun_ put it, and a clever and remarkably prompt “handbook”

article in the _Referee_ compared the affair to a menagerie suddenly

let loose in a village.

No one in London knew positively of the nature of the armoured

Martians, and there was still a fixed idea that these monsters must be

sluggish: “crawling,” “creeping painfully”—such expressions occurred in

almost all the earlier reports. None of the telegrams could have been

written by an eyewitness of their advance. The Sunday papers printed

separate editions as further news came to hand, some even in default of

it. But there was practically nothing more to tell people until late in

the afternoon, when the authorities gave the press agencies the news in

their possession. It was stated that the people of Walton and

Weybridge, and all the district were pouring along the roads

Londonward, and that was all.

My brother went to church at the Foundling Hospital in the morning,

still in ignorance of what had happened on the previous night. There he

heard allusions made to the invasion, and a special prayer for peace.

Coming out, he bought a _Referee_. He became alarmed at the news in

this, and went again to Waterloo station to find out if communication

were restored. The omnibuses, carriages, cyclists, and innumerable

people walking in their best clothes seemed scarcely affected by the

strange intelligence that the newsvendors were disseminating. People

were interested, or, if alarmed, alarmed only on account of the local

residents. At the station he heard for the first time that the Windsor

and Chertsey lines were now interrupted. The porters told him that

several remarkable telegrams had been received in the morning from

Byfleet and Chertsey stations, but that these had abruptly ceased. My

brother could get very little precise detail out of them.

“There’s fighting going on about Weybridge” was the extent of their

information.

The train service was now very much disorganised. Quite a number of

people who had been expecting friends from places on the South-Western

network were standing about the station. One grey-headed old gentleman

came and abused the South-Western Company bitterly to my brother. “It

wants showing up,” he said.