years and ten, and was pursuing the remainder of his earthly march,

burdened with infirmities which even the martial music of his own

spirit-stirring recollections could do little towards lightening. The

step was palsied now that had been foremost in the charge. It was only

with the assistance of a servant, and by leaning his hand heavily on

the iron balustrade, that he could slowly and painfully ascend the

Custom-House steps, and, with a toilsome progress across the floor,

attain his customary chair beside the fireplace. There he used to sit,

gazing with a somewhat dim serenity of aspect at the figures that came

and went; amid the rustle of papers, the administering of oaths, the

discussion of business, and the casual talk of the office; all which

sounds and circumstances seemed but indistinctly to impress his

senses, and hardly to make their way into his inner sphere of

contemplation. His countenance, in this repose, was mild and kindly.

If his notice was sought, an expression of courtesy and interest

gleamed out upon his features; proving that there was light within

him, and that it was only the outward medium of the intellectual lamp

that obstructed the rays in their passage. The closer you penetrated

to the substance of his mind, the sounder it appeared. When no longer

called upon to speak, or listen, either of which operations cost him

an evident effort, his face would briefly subside into its former not

uncheerful quietude. It was not painful to behold this look; for,

though dim, it had not the imbecility of decaying age. The framework

of his nature, originally strong and massive, was not yet crumbled

into ruin.

To observe and define his character, however, under such

disadvantages, was as difficult a task as to trace out and build up

anew, in imagination, an old fortress, like Ticonderoga, from a view

of its gray and broken ruins. Here and there, perchance, the walls may

remain almost complete, but elsewhere may be only a shapeless mound,

cumbrous with its very strength, and overgrown, through long years of

peace and neglect, with grass and alien weeds.

Nevertheless, looking at the old warrior with affection,—for, slight

as was the communication between us, my feeling towards him, like that

of all bipeds and quadrupeds who knew him, might not improperly be

termed so,—I could discern the main points of his portrait. It was

marked with the noble and heroic qualities which showed it to be not

by a mere accident, but of good right, that he had won a distinguished

name. His spirit could never, I conceive, have been characterized by

an uneasy activity; it must, at any period of his life, have required

an impulse to set him in motion; but, once stirred up, with obstacles

to overcome, and an adequate object to be attained, it was not in the

man to give out or fail. The heat that had formerly pervaded his

nature, and which was not yet extinct, was never of the kind that

flashes and flickers in a blaze; but, rather, a deep, red glow, as of

iron in a furnace. Weight, solidity, firmness; this was the expression

of his repose, even in such decay as had crept untimely over him, at

the period of which I speak. But I could imagine, even then, that, under

some excitement which should go deeply into his consciousness,—roused

by a trumpet-peal, loud enough to awaken all his energies that were

not dead, but only slumbering,—he was yet capable of flinging off his

infirmities like a sick man’s gown, dropping the staff of age to seize

a battle-sword, and starting up once more a warrior. And, in so

intense a moment, his demeanor would have still been calm. Such an

exhibition, however, was but to be pictured in fancy; not to be

anticipated, nor desired. What I saw in him—as evidently as the

indestructible ramparts of Old Ticonderoga already cited as the most

appropriate simile—were the features of stubborn and ponderous

endurance, which might well have amounted to obstinacy in his earlier

days; of integrity, that, like most of his other endowments, lay in a

somewhat heavy mass, and was just as unmalleable and unmanageable as a

ton of iron ore; and of benevolence, which, fiercely as he led the

bayonets on at Chippewa or Fort Erie, I take to be of quite as genuine

a stamp as what actuates any or all the polemical philanthropists of

the age. He had slain men with his own hand, for aught I

know,—certainly, they had fallen, like blades of grass at the sweep

of the scythe, before the charge to which his spirit imparted its

triumphant energy;—but, be that as it might, there was never in his

heart so much cruelty as would have brushed the down off a butterfly’s

wing. I have not known the man to whose innate kindliness I would more

confidently make an appeal.

Many characteristics—and those, too, which contribute not the least

forcibly to impart resemblance in a sketch—must have vanished, or

been obscured, before I met the General. All merely graceful

attributes are usually the most evanescent; nor does Nature adorn the

human ruin with blossoms of new beauty, that have their roots and

proper nutriment only in the chinks and crevices of decay, as she sows

wall-flowers over the ruined fortress of Ticonderoga. Still, even in