when they typified the soul as a butterfly!”

I thought I would push his analogy to its utmost logically, so I said

quickly:--

“Oh, it is a soul you are after now, is it?” His madness foiled his

reason, and a puzzled look spread over his face as, shaking his head

with a decision which I had but seldom seen in him, he said:--

“Oh, no, oh no! I want no souls. Life is all I want.” Here he brightened

up; “I am pretty indifferent about it at present. Life is all right; I

have all I want. You must get a new patient, doctor, if you wish to

study zoöphagy!”

This puzzled me a little, so I drew him on:--

“Then you command life; you are a god, I suppose?” He smiled with an

ineffably benign superiority.

“Oh no! Far be it from me to arrogate to myself the attributes of the

Deity. I am not even concerned in His especially spiritual doings. If I

may state my intellectual position I am, so far as concerns things

purely terrestrial, somewhat in the position which Enoch occupied

spiritually!” This was a poser to me. I could not at the moment recall

Enoch’s appositeness; so I had to ask a simple question, though I felt

that by so doing I was lowering myself in the eyes of the lunatic:--

“And why with Enoch?”

“Because he walked with God.” I could not see the analogy, but did not

like to admit it; so I harked back to what he had denied:--

“So you don’t care about life and you don’t want souls. Why not?” I put

my question quickly and somewhat sternly, on purpose to disconcert him.

The effort succeeded; for an instant he unconsciously relapsed into his

old servile manner, bent low before me, and actually fawned upon me as

he replied:--

“I don’t want any souls, indeed, indeed! I don’t. I couldn’t use them if

I had them; they would be no manner of use to me. I couldn’t eat them

or----” He suddenly stopped and the old cunning look spread over his

face, like a wind-sweep on the surface of the water. “And doctor, as to

life, what is it after all? When you’ve got all you require, and you

know that you will never want, that is all. I have friends--good

friends--like you, Dr. Seward”; this was said with a leer of

inexpressible cunning. “I know that I shall never lack the means of

life!”

I think that through the cloudiness of his insanity he saw some

antagonism in me, for he at once fell back on the last refuge of such as

he--a dogged silence. After a short time I saw that for the present it

was useless to speak to him. He was sulky, and so I came away.

Later in the day he sent for me. Ordinarily I would not have come

without special reason, but just at present I am so interested in him

that I would gladly make an effort. Besides, I am glad to have anything

to help to pass the time. Harker is out, following up clues; and so are

Lord Godalming and Quincey. Van Helsing sits in my study poring over the

record prepared by the Harkers; he seems to think that by accurate

knowledge of all details he will light upon some clue. He does not wish

to be disturbed in the work, without cause. I would have taken him with

me to see the patient, only I thought that after his last repulse he

might not care to go again. There was also another reason: Renfield

might not speak so freely before a third person as when he and I were

alone.

I found him sitting out in the middle of the floor on his stool, a pose

which is generally indicative of some mental energy on his part. When I

came in, he said at once, as though the question had been waiting on his

lips:--

“What about souls?” It was evident then that my surmise had been

correct. Unconscious cerebration was doing its work, even with the

lunatic. I determined to have the matter out. “What about them

yourself?” I asked. He did not reply for a moment but looked all round

him, and up and down, as though he expected to find some inspiration for

an answer.

“I don’t want any souls!” he said in a feeble, apologetic way. The

matter seemed preying on his mind, and so I determined to use it--to “be

cruel only to be kind.” So I said:--

“You like life, and you want life?”