Partly supported by Hester Prynne, and holding one hand of little

Pearl’s, the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale turned to the dignified and

venerable rulers; to the holy ministers, who were his brethren; to the

people, whose great heart was thoroughly appalled, yet overflowing

with tearful sympathy, as knowing that some deep life-matter—which,

if full of sin, was full of anguish and repentance likewise—was now

to be laid open to them. The sun, but little past its meridian, shone

down upon the clergyman, and gave a distinctness to his figure, as he

stood out from all the earth, to put in his plea of guilty at the bar

of Eternal Justice.

“People of New England!” cried he, with a voice that rose over them,

high, solemn, and majestic,—yet had always a tremor through it, and

sometimes a shriek, struggling up out of a fathomless depth of remorse

and woe,—“ye, that have loved me!—ye, that have deemed me

holy!—behold me here, the one sinner of the world! At last!—at

last!—I stand upon the spot where, seven years since, I should have

stood; here, with this woman, whose arm, more than the little strength

wherewith I have crept hitherward, sustains me, at this dreadful

moment, from grovelling down upon my face! Lo, the scarlet letter

which Hester wears! Ye have all shuddered at it! Wherever her walk

hath been,—wherever, so miserably burdened, she may have hoped to

find repose,—it hath cast a lurid gleam of awe and horrible

repugnance round about her. But there stood one in the midst of you,

at whose brand of sin and infamy ye have not shuddered!”

It seemed, at this point, as if the minister must leave the remainder

of his secret undisclosed. But he fought back the bodily

weakness,—and, still more, the faintness of heart,—that was striving

for the mastery with him. He threw off all assistance, and stepped

passionately forward a pace before the woman and the child.

“It was on him!” he continued, with a kind of fierceness; so

determined was he to speak out the whole. “God’s eye beheld it! The

angels were forever pointing at it! The Devil knew it well, and

fretted it continually with the touch of his burning finger! But he

hid it cunningly from men, and walked among you with the mien of a

spirit, mournful, because so pure in a sinful world!—and sad, because

he missed his heavenly kindred! Now, at the death-hour, he stands up

before you! He bids you look again at Hester’s scarlet letter! He

tells you, that, with all its mysterious horror, it is but the shadow

of what he bears on his own breast, and that even this, his own red

stigma, is no more than the type of what has seared his inmost heart!

Stand any here that question God’s judgment on a sinner? Behold!

Behold a dreadful witness of it!”

[Illustration: “Shall we not meet again?”]

With a convulsive motion, he tore away the ministerial band from

before his breast. It was revealed! But it were irreverent to describe

that revelation. For an instant, the gaze of the horror-stricken

multitude was concentred on the ghastly miracle; while the minister

stood, with a flush of triumph in his face, as one who, in the

crisis of acutest pain, had won a victory. Then, down he sank upon the

scaffold! Hester partly raised him, and supported his head against her

bosom. Old Roger Chillingworth knelt down beside him, with a blank,

dull countenance, out of which the life seemed to have departed.

“Thou hast escaped me!” he repeated more than once. “Thou hast escaped

me!”

“May God forgive thee!” said the minister. “Thou, too, hast deeply

sinned!”

He withdrew his dying eyes from the old man, and fixed them on the

woman and the child.

“My little Pearl,” said he, feebly,—and there was a sweet and gentle

smile over his face, as of a spirit sinking into deep repose; nay, now

that the burden was removed, it seemed almost as if he would be

sportive with the child,—“dear little Pearl, wilt thou kiss me now?

Thou wouldst not, yonder, in the forest! But now thou wilt?”

Pearl kissed his lips. A spell was broken. The great scene of grief,

in which the wild infant bore a part, had developed all her

sympathies; and as her tears fell upon her father’s cheek, they were

the pledge that she would grow up amid human joy and sorrow, nor

forever do battle with the world, but be a woman in it. Towards her

mother, too, Pearl’s errand as a messenger of anguish was all

fulfilled.

“Hester,” said the clergyman, “farewell!”