they at once began falling. As yet Tom Swift was unaware of the exact

nature of the accident or its cause. All he knew was that there had

been a big noise and that the engine had stopped working. He could not

see the silencer from where he sat, as it was constructed on the

underside of the motor, but he had an idea that the same sort of mishap

had occurred as on the occasion when the test machine had sailed

through the roof of his workshop.

"But, luckily, this wasn't as bad," mused Tom. "Anyhow the motor is out

of business."

And this was very evident. The young inventor had tried to start the

apparatus after its stoppage by the explosion, but it had not responded

to his efforts, and then he had desisted, fearing to cause some further

damage, or, perhaps, endanger his own life and that of Jackson.

Down, down swept Silent Sam--doubly silent now, and Tom began looking

about for a good place to make a landing. This was nothing new for

either him or his mechanician, and they accepted the outcome as a

matter of course.

"Not a very lively place down there," remarked Jackson, as he looked

over the side of the cockpit.

"If we have to depend for help on any one down there, I guess we'll be

a long time waiting," agreed Tom. They were about to land in a very

lonely spot. It was one he had never before visited, though he knew it

could not be much more than twenty miles from his own home, as they had

not flown much farther than that distance.

But, somehow or other, Tom had not visited this particular section, and

knew nothing of it. He saw below him, as Jackson had seen, a lonely

stretch of country--a big field, once a wood-lot, evidently, as

scattered about were some stumps and some second growth trees. There

were also a number of evergreens--Christmas trees Jackson called them.

And this was the only open place for miles, the surrounding country

being a densely wooded one. There did not appear to be a house or other

building in sight where they might seek help.

"But maybe we can make the repairs ourselves and keep on," the lad

thought.

With practiced eye he picked out a smooth, grassy, level spot, in the

midst of scattered evergreen trees, and there Tom Swift skillfully

brought his Air Scout to rest. With a gentle thud the rubber-tired

wheels struck the Earth, rolled along a little distance, and then

called to a stop.

Hardly had the aeroplane ceased moving when Tom and his companion

jumped out and began eagerly to examine the machinery to see the extent

of damage.

"I thought so!" Tom exclaimed. "The silencer cracked under the strain.

Those exhaust gases have more pressure that I believed possible. I

increased the margin of safety on this muffler, too. But she's

cracked, and I can't use the machine until I put on a new one. Good

thing I didn't ask for a government inspection until after this trial

flight."

"That's so," agreed Jackson. "But can't you patch it up, or go on

without a muffler, so we can get back home?"

"I'm afraid not," Tom answered. "You see I removed all the old exhaust

pipe fittings when I put on my new silencer. Now if I took off my

attachment there wouldn't be anything to carry off the discharged

gases, and they'd form a regular cloud about us. We couldn't stand it

without gas masks, such as they use in the trenches, and we haven't any

of those with us."

"That's right," agreed Jackson. "Well, what do you want to do? Have me

stay here and guard the machine while you go for help? Or shall I go?"

"I don't know why we both can't go," said Tom. "There is no use trying

to patch up this machine here. I'll have to send a truck after it, and

dismantle it before I can get it home.

"As for either of us staying here on guard, I don't quite see the need

of that. This looks like the jumping-off place to me. I don't believe

there's a native within miles. I didn't see any houses as we came down,

and I think Silent Sam will be perfectly safe here. No one can run off

with him, anyhow. He'd be as hard to start as an automobile with all

four wheels gone. Let's leave it here and both walk back."