not terrified. I came upon him as if it were a matter of course. I

watched him for some time, but he did not move. He appeared to be

standing and yelling, for no reason that I could discover.

I tried to formulate a plan of action. That perpetual sound of “Ulla,

ulla, ulla, ulla,” confused my mind. Perhaps I was too tired to be very

fearful. Certainly I was more curious to know the reason of this

monotonous crying than afraid. I turned back away from the park and

struck into Park Road, intending to skirt the park, went along under

the shelter of the terraces, and got a view of this stationary, howling

Martian from the direction of St. John’s Wood. A couple of hundred

yards out of Baker Street I heard a yelping chorus, and saw, first a

dog with a piece of putrescent red meat in his jaws coming headlong

towards me, and then a pack of starving mongrels in pursuit of him. He

made a wide curve to avoid me, as though he feared I might prove a

fresh competitor. As the yelping died away down the silent road, the

wailing sound of “Ulla, ulla, ulla, ulla,” reasserted itself.

I came upon the wrecked handling-machine halfway to St. John’s Wood

station. At first I thought a house had fallen across the road. It was

only as I clambered among the ruins that I saw, with a start, this

mechanical Samson lying, with its tentacles bent and smashed and

twisted, among the ruins it had made. The forepart was shattered. It

seemed as if it had driven blindly straight at the house, and had been

overwhelmed in its overthrow. It seemed to me then that this might have

happened by a handling-machine escaping from the guidance of its

Martian. I could not clamber among the ruins to see it, and the

twilight was now so far advanced that the blood with which its seat was

smeared, and the gnawed gristle of the Martian that the dogs had left,

were invisible to me.

Wondering still more at all that I had seen, I pushed on towards

Primrose Hill. Far away, through a gap in the trees, I saw a second

Martian, as motionless as the first, standing in the park towards the

Zoological Gardens, and silent. A little beyond the ruins about the

smashed handling-machine I came upon the red weed again, and found the

Regent’s Canal, a spongy mass of dark-red vegetation.

As I crossed the bridge, the sound of “Ulla, ulla, ulla, ulla,” ceased.

It was, as it were, cut off. The silence came like a thunderclap.

The dusky houses about me stood faint and tall and dim; the trees

towards the park were growing black. All about me the red weed

clambered among the ruins, writhing to get above me in the dimness.

Night, the mother of fear and mystery, was coming upon me. But while

that voice sounded the solitude, the desolation, had been endurable; by

virtue of it London had still seemed alive, and the sense of life about

me had upheld me. Then suddenly a change, the passing of something—I

knew not what—and then a stillness that could be felt. Nothing but this

gaunt quiet.

London about me gazed at me spectrally. The windows in the white houses

were like the eye sockets of skulls. About me my imagination found a

thousand noiseless enemies moving. Terror seized me, a horror of my

temerity. In front of me the road became pitchy black as though it was

tarred, and I saw a contorted shape lying across the pathway. I could

not bring myself to go on. I turned down St. John’s Wood Road, and ran

headlong from this unendurable stillness towards Kilburn. I hid from

the night and the silence, until long after midnight, in a cabmen’s

shelter in Harrow Road. But before the dawn my courage returned, and

while the stars were still in the sky I turned once more towards

Regent’s Park. I missed my way among the streets, and presently saw

down a long avenue, in the half-light of the early dawn, the curve of

Primrose Hill. On the summit, towering up to the fading stars, was a

third Martian, erect and motionless like the others.

An insane resolve possessed me. I would die and end it. And I would

save myself even the trouble of killing myself. I marched on recklessly

towards this Titan, and then, as I drew nearer and the light grew, I

saw that a multitude of black birds was circling and clustering about