Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt

for it. She was received, however, very politely by them; and in their

brother’s manners there was something better than politeness--there was

good-humour and kindness. Mr. Darcy said very little, and Mr. Hurst

nothing at all. The former was divided between admiration of the

brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion and doubt as to

the occasion’s justifying her coming so far alone. The latter was

thinking only of his breakfast.

Her inquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered. Miss

Bennet had slept ill, and though up, was very feverish, and not well

enough to leave her room. Elizabeth was glad to be taken to her

immediately; and Jane, who had only been withheld by the fear of giving

alarm or inconvenience, from expressing in her note how much she longed

for such a visit, was delighted at her entrance. She was not equal,

however, to much conversation; and when Miss Bingley left them together,

could attempt little beside expressions of gratitude for the

extraordinary kindness she was treated with. Elizabeth silently attended

her.

When breakfast was over, they were joined by the sisters; and Elizabeth

began to like them herself, when she saw how much affection and

solicitude they showed for Jane. The apothecary came; and having

examined his patient, said, as might be supposed, that she had caught a

violent cold, and that they must endeavour to get the better of it;

advised her to return to bed, and promised her some draughts. The advice

was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head

ached acutely. Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment, nor were

the other ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had in fact

nothing to do elsewhere.

When the clock struck three, Elizabeth felt that she must go, and very

unwillingly said so. Miss Bingley offered her the carriage, and she only

wanted a little pressing to accept it, when Jane testified such concern

at parting with her that Miss Bingley was obliged to convert the offer

of the chaise into an invitation to remain at Netherfield for the

present. Elizabeth most thankfully consented, and a servant was

despatched to Longbourn, to acquaint the family with her stay, and bring

back a supply of clothes.

[Illustration:

“The Apothecary came”

]

[Illustration:

“covering a screen”

]

CHAPTER VIII.

[Illustration]

At five o’clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half-past six

Elizabeth was summoned to dinner. To the civil inquiries which then

poured in, and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the

much superior solicitude of Mr. Bingley, she could not make a very

favourable answer. Jane was by no means better. The sisters, on hearing

this, repeated three or four times how much they were grieved, how

shocking it was to have a bad cold, and how excessively they disliked

being ill themselves; and then thought no more of the matter: and their

indifference towards Jane, when not immediately before them, restored

Elizabeth to the enjoyment of all her original dislike.

Their brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom she could

regard with any complacency. His anxiety for Jane was evident, and his

attentions to herself most pleasing; and they prevented her feeling

herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the

others. She had very little notice from any but him. Miss Bingley was

engrossed by Mr. Darcy, her sister scarcely less so; and as for Mr.

Hurst, by whom Elizabeth sat, he was an indolent man, who lived only to

eat, drink, and play at cards, who, when he found her prefer a plain

dish to a ragout, had nothing to say to her.

When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss Bingley

began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room. Her manners were

pronounced to be very bad indeed,--a mixture of pride and impertinence:

she had no conversation, no style, no taste, no beauty. Mrs. Hurst

thought the same, and added,--

“She has nothing, in short, to recommend her, but being an excellent

walker. I shall never forget her appearance this morning. She really

looked almost wild.”

“She did indeed, Louisa. I could hardly keep my countenance. Very

nonsensical to come at all! Why must _she_ be scampering about the