fall across her.

When the dreary change was wrought, she extended her hand to Pearl.

“Dost thou know thy mother now, child?” asked she, reproachfully, but

with a subdued tone. “Wilt thou come across the brook, and own thy

mother, now that she has her shame upon her,—now that she is sad?”

“Yes; now I will!” answered the child, bounding across the brook, and

clasping Hester in her arms. “Now thou art my mother indeed! And I am

thy little Pearl!”

In a mood of tenderness that was not usual with her, she drew down her

mother’s head, and kissed her brow and both her cheeks. But then—by a

kind of necessity that always impelled this child to alloy whatever

comfort she might chance to give with a throb of anguish—Pearl put up

her mouth, and kissed the scarlet letter too!

“That was not kind!” said Hester. “When thou hast shown me a little

love, thou mockest me!”

“Why doth the minister sit yonder?” asked Pearl.

“He waits to welcome thee,” replied her mother. “Come thou, and

entreat his blessing! He loves thee, my little Pearl, and loves thy

mother too. Wilt thou not love him? Come! he longs to greet thee!”

“Doth he love us?” said Pearl, looking up, with acute intelligence,

into her mother’s face. “Will he go back with us, hand in hand, we

three together, into the town?”

“Not now, dear child,” answered Hester. “But in days to come he will

walk hand in hand with us. We will have a home and fireside of our

own; and thou shalt sit upon his knee; and he will teach thee many

things, and love thee dearly. Thou wilt love him; wilt thou not?”

“And will he always keep his hand over his heart?” inquired Pearl.

“Foolish child, what a question is that!” exclaimed her mother. “Come

and ask his blessing!”

But, whether influenced by the jealousy that seems instinctive with

every petted child towards a dangerous rival, or from whatever caprice

of her freakish nature, Pearl would show no favor to the clergyman. It

was only by an exertion of force that her mother brought her up to

him, hanging back, and manifesting her reluctance by odd grimaces; of

which, ever since her babyhood, she had possessed a singular variety,

and could transform her mobile physiognomy into a series of different

aspects, with a new mischief in them, each and all. The

minister—painfully embarrassed, but hoping that a kiss might prove a

talisman to admit him into the child’s kindlier regards—bent forward,

and impressed one on her brow. Hereupon, Pearl broke away from her

mother, and, running to the brook, stooped over it, and bathed her

forehead, until the unwelcome kiss was quite washed off, and diffused

through a long lapse of the gliding water. She then remained apart,

silently watching Hester and the clergyman; while they talked

together, and made such arrangements as were suggested by their new

position, and the purposes soon to be fulfilled.

And now this fateful interview had come to a close. The dell was to be

left a solitude among its dark, old trees, which, with their

multitudinous tongues, would whisper long of what had passed there,

and no mortal be the wiser. And the melancholy brook would add this

other tale to the mystery with which its little heart was already

overburdened, and whereof it still kept up a murmuring babble, with

not a whit more cheerfulness of tone than for ages heretofore.

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 XX.

 THE MINISTER IN A MAZE.

As the minister departed, in advance of Hester Prynne and little

Pearl, he threw a backward glance; half expecting that he should

discover only some faintly traced features or outline of the mother

and the child, slowly fading into the twilight of the woods. So great

a vicissitude in his life could not at once be received as real. But

there was Hester, clad in her gray robe, still standing beside the

tree-trunk, which some blast had overthrown a long antiquity ago, and

which time had ever since been covering with moss, so that these two

fated ones, with earth’s heaviest burden on them, might there sit down

together, and find a single hour’s rest and solace. And there was

Pearl, too, lightly dancing from the margin of the brook,—now that

the intrusive third person was gone,—and taking her old place by her

mother’s side. So the minister had not fallen asleep and dreamed!

In order to free his mind from this indistinctness and duplicity of

impression, which vexed it with a strange disquietude, he recalled and

more thoroughly defined the plans which Hester and himself had