lane, and along a portion of Derby Street. All three give glimpses of

the shops of grocers, block-makers, slop-sellers, and ship-chandlers;

around the doors of which are generally to be seen, laughing and

gossiping, clusters of old salts, and such other wharf-rats as haunt

the Wapping of a seaport. The room itself is cobwebbed, and dingy with

old paint; its floor is strewn with gray sand, in a fashion that has

elsewhere fallen into long disuse; and it is easy to conclude, from

the general slovenliness of the place, that this is a sanctuary into

which womankind, with her tools of magic, the broom and mop, has very

infrequent access. In the way of furniture, there is a stove with a

voluminous funnel; an old pine desk, with a three-legged stool beside

it; two or three wooden-bottom chairs, exceedingly decrepit and

infirm; and—not to forget the library—on some shelves, a score or

two of volumes of the Acts of Congress, and a bulky Digest of the

Revenue Laws. A tin pipe ascends through the ceiling, and forms a

medium of vocal communication with other parts of the edifice. And

here, some six months ago,—pacing from corner to corner, or lounging

on the long-legged stool, with his elbow on the desk, and his eyes

wandering up and down the columns of the morning newspaper,—you might

have recognized, honored reader, the same individual who welcomed you

into his cheery little study, where the sunshine glimmered so

pleasantly through the willow branches, on the western side of the Old

Manse. But now, should you go thither to seek him, you would inquire

in vain for the Locofoco Surveyor. The besom of reform has swept him

out of office; and a worthier successor wears his dignity, and pockets

his emoluments.

This old town of Salem—my native place, though I have dwelt much away

from it, both in boyhood and maturer years—possesses, or did possess,

a hold on my affections, the force of which I have never realized

during my seasons of actual residence here. Indeed, so far as its

physical aspect is concerned, with its flat, unvaried surface, covered

chiefly with wooden houses, few or none of which pretend to

architectural beauty,—its irregularity, which is neither picturesque

nor quaint, but only tame,—its long and lazy street, lounging

wearisomely through the whole extent of the peninsula, with Gallows

Hill and New Guinea at one end, and a view of the almshouse at the

other,—such being the features of my native town, it would be quite

as reasonable to form a sentimental attachment to a disarranged

checker-board. And yet, though invariably happiest elsewhere, there is

within me a feeling for old Salem, which, in lack of a better phrase,

I must be content to call affection. The sentiment is probably

assignable to the deep and aged roots which my family has struck into

the soil. It is now nearly two centuries and a quarter since the

original Briton, the earliest emigrant of my name, made his appearance

in the wild and forest-bordered settlement, which has since become a

city. And here his descendants have been born and died, and have

mingled their earthy substance with the soil; until no small portion

of it must necessarily be akin to the mortal frame wherewith, for a

little while, I walk the streets. In part, therefore, the attachment

which I speak of is the mere sensuous sympathy of dust for dust. Few

of my countrymen can know what it is; nor, as frequent transplantation

is perhaps better for the stock, need they consider it desirable to

know.

But the sentiment has likewise its moral quality. The figure of that

first ancestor, invested by family tradition with a dim and dusky

grandeur, was present to my boyish imagination, as far back as I can

remember. It still haunts me, and induces a sort of home-feeling with

the past, which I scarcely claim in reference to the present phase of

the town. I seem to have a stronger claim to a residence here on

account of this grave, bearded, sable-cloaked and steeple-crowned

progenitor,—who came so early, with his Bible and his sword, and

trode the unworn street with such a stately port, and made so large a

figure, as a man of war and peace,—a stronger claim than for myself,

whose name is seldom heard and my face hardly known. He was a soldier,

legislator, judge; he was a ruler in the Church; he had all the

Puritanic traits, both good and evil. He was likewise a bitter

persecutor, as witness the Quakers, who have remembered him in their

histories, and relate an incident of his hard severity towards a woman

of their sect, which will last longer, it is to be feared, than any

record of his better deeds, although these were many. His son, too,

inherited the persecuting spirit, and made himself so conspicuous in

the martyrdom of the witches, that their blood may fairly be said to

have left a stain upon him. So deep a stain, indeed, that his old dry

bones, in the Charter Street burial-ground, must still retain it, if

they have not crumbled utterly to dust! I know not whether these

ancestors of mine bethought themselves to repent, and ask pardon of

Heaven for their cruelties; or whether they are now groaning under the