of her voice, as she was convinced that he did not understand her

words, she added “and by taking the furniture away, won’t it seem like

we’re showing that we’ve given up all hope of improvement and we’re

abandoning him to cope for himself? I think it’d be best to leave the

room exactly the way it was before so that when Gregor comes back to us

again he’ll find everything unchanged and he’ll be able to forget the

time in between all the easier”.

Hearing these words from his mother made Gregor realise that the lack

of any direct human communication, along with the monotonous life led

by the family during these two months, must have made him confused—he

could think of no other way of explaining to himself why he had

seriously wanted his room emptied out. Had he really wanted to

transform his room into a cave, a warm room fitted out with the nice

furniture he had inherited? That would have let him crawl around

unimpeded in any direction, but it would also have let him quickly

forget his past when he had still been human. He had come very close to

forgetting, and it had only been the voice of his mother, unheard for

so long, that had shaken him out of it. Nothing should be removed;

everything had to stay; he could not do without the good influence the

furniture had on his condition; and if the furniture made it difficult

for him to crawl about mindlessly that was not a loss but a great

advantage.

His sister, unfortunately, did not agree; she had become used to the

idea, not without reason, that she was Gregor’s spokesman to his

parents about the things that concerned him. This meant that his

mother’s advice now was sufficient reason for her to insist on removing

not only the chest of drawers and the desk, as she had thought at

first, but all the furniture apart from the all-important couch. It was

more than childish perversity, of course, or the unexpected confidence

she had recently acquired, that made her insist; she had indeed noticed

that Gregor needed a lot of room to crawl about in, whereas the

furniture, as far as anyone could see, was of no use to him at all.

Girls of that age, though, do become enthusiastic about things and feel

they must get their way whenever they can. Perhaps this was what

tempted Grete to make Gregor’s situation seem even more shocking than

it was so that she could do even more for him. Grete would probably be

the only one who would dare enter a room dominated by Gregor crawling

about the bare walls by himself.

So she refused to let her mother dissuade her. Gregor’s mother already

looked uneasy in his room, she soon stopped speaking and helped

Gregor’s sister to get the chest of drawers out with what strength she

had. The chest of drawers was something that Gregor could do without if

he had to, but the writing desk had to stay. Hardly had the two women

pushed the chest of drawers, groaning, out of the room than Gregor

poked his head out from under the couch to see what he could do about

it. He meant to be as careful and considerate as he could, but,

unfortunately, it was his mother who came back first while Grete in the

next room had her arms round the chest, pushing and pulling at it from

side to side by herself without, of course, moving it an inch. His

mother was not used to the sight of Gregor, he might have made her ill,

so Gregor hurried backwards to the far end of the couch. In his

startlement, though, he was not able to prevent the sheet at its front

from moving a little. It was enough to attract his mother’s attention.

She stood very still, remained there a moment, and then went back out

to Grete.

Gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was

happening, it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after all,

but he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro, their little

calls to each other, the scraping of the furniture on the floor, all

these things made him feel as if he were being assailed from all sides.

With his head and legs pulled in against him and his body pressed to

the floor, he was forced to admit to himself that he could not stand

all of this much longer. They were emptying his room out; taking away

everything that was dear to him; they had already taken out the chest

containing his fretsaw and other tools; now they threatened to remove

the writing desk with its place clearly worn into the floor, the desk

where he had done his homework as a business trainee, at high school,

even while he had been at infant school—he really could not wait any

longer to see whether the two women’s intentions were good. He had

nearly forgotten they were there anyway, as they were now too tired to

say anything while they worked and he could only hear their feet as

they stepped heavily on the floor.

So, while the women were leant against the desk in the other room

catching their breath, he sallied out, changed direction four times not

knowing what he should save first before his attention was suddenly

caught by the picture on the wall—which was already denuded of

everything else that had been on it—of the lady dressed in copious fur.

He hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself against its glass,

it held him firmly and felt good on his hot belly. This picture at

least, now totally covered by Gregor, would certainly be taken away by