“No! no! Jonathan, you must not leave me. I have suffered enough

to-night, God knows, without the dread of his harming you. You must stay

with me. Stay with these friends who will watch over you!” Her

expression became frantic as she spoke; and, he yielding to her, she

pulled him down sitting on the bed side, and clung to him fiercely.

Van Helsing and I tried to calm them both. The Professor held up his

little golden crucifix, and said with wonderful calmness:--

“Do not fear, my dear. We are here; and whilst this is close to you no

foul thing can approach. You are safe for to-night; and we must be calm

and take counsel together.” She shuddered and was silent, holding down

her head on her husband’s breast. When she raised it, his white

night-robe was stained with blood where her lips had touched, and where

the thin open wound in her neck had sent forth drops. The instant she

saw it she drew back, with a low wail, and whispered, amidst choking

sobs:--

“Unclean, unclean! I must touch him or kiss him no more. Oh, that it

should be that it is I who am now his worst enemy, and whom he may have

most cause to fear.” To this he spoke out resolutely:--

“Nonsense, Mina. It is a shame to me to hear such a word. I would not

hear it of you; and I shall not hear it from you. May God judge me by my

deserts, and punish me with more bitter suffering than even this hour,

if by any act or will of mine anything ever come between us!” He put out

his arms and folded her to his breast; and for a while she lay there

sobbing. He looked at us over her bowed head, with eyes that blinked

damply above his quivering nostrils; his mouth was set as steel. After a

while her sobs became less frequent and more faint, and then he said to

me, speaking with a studied calmness which I felt tried his nervous

power to the utmost:--

“And now, Dr. Seward, tell me all about it. Too well I know the broad

fact; tell me all that has been.” I told him exactly what had happened,

and he listened with seeming impassiveness; but his nostrils twitched

and his eyes blazed as I told how the ruthless hands of the Count had

held his wife in that terrible and horrid position, with her mouth to

the open wound in his breast. It interested me, even at that moment, to

see, that, whilst the face of white set passion worked convulsively over

the bowed head, the hands tenderly and lovingly stroked the ruffled

hair. Just as I had finished, Quincey and Godalming knocked at the door.

They entered in obedience to our summons. Van Helsing looked at me

questioningly. I understood him to mean if we were to take advantage of

their coming to divert if possible the thoughts of the unhappy husband

and wife from each other and from themselves; so on nodding acquiescence

to him he asked them what they had seen or done. To which Lord Godalming

answered:--

“I could not see him anywhere in the passage, or in any of our rooms. I

looked in the study but, though he had been there, he had gone. He had,

however----” He stopped suddenly, looking at the poor drooping figure on

the bed. Van Helsing said gravely:--

“Go on, friend Arthur. We want here no more concealments. Our hope now

is in knowing all. Tell freely!” So Art went on:--

“He had been there, and though it could only have been for a few

seconds, he made rare hay of the place. All the manuscript had been

burned, and the blue flames were flickering amongst the white ashes; the

cylinders of your phonograph too were thrown on the fire, and the wax

had helped the flames.” Here I interrupted. “Thank God there is the

other copy in the safe!” His face lit for a moment, but fell again as he

went on: “I ran downstairs then, but could see no sign of him. I looked

into Renfield’s room; but there was no trace there except----!” Again he

paused. “Go on,” said Harker hoarsely; so he bowed his head and

moistening his lips with his tongue, added: “except that the poor fellow

is dead.” Mrs. Harker raised her head, looking from one to the other of

us she said solemnly:--

“God’s will be done!” I could not but feel that Art was keeping back

something; but, as I took it that it was with a purpose, I said nothing.

Van Helsing turned to Morris and asked:--

“And you, friend Quincey, have you any to tell?”