said that he thought only of himself. Bah! what good are peasants

without a leader? Where ends the war without a brain and heart to

conduct it? Again, when, after the battle of Mohács, we threw off the

Hungarian yoke, we of the Dracula blood were amongst their leaders, for

our spirit would not brook that we were not free. Ah, young sir, the

Szekelys--and the Dracula as their heart’s blood, their brains, and

their swords--can boast a record that mushroom growths like the

Hapsburgs and the Romanoffs can never reach. The warlike days are over.

Blood is too precious a thing in these days of dishonourable peace; and

the glories of the great races are as a tale that is told.”

It was by this time close on morning, and we went to bed. (_Mem._, this

diary seems horribly like the beginning of the “Arabian Nights,” for

everything has to break off at cockcrow--or like the ghost of Hamlet’s

father.)

 * * * * *

_12 May._--Let me begin with facts--bare, meagre facts, verified by

books and figures, and of which there can be no doubt. I must not

confuse them with experiences which will have to rest on my own

observation, or my memory of them. Last evening when the Count came from

his room he began by asking me questions on legal matters and on the

doing of certain kinds of business. I had spent the day wearily over

books, and, simply to keep my mind occupied, went over some of the

matters I had been examining at Lincoln’s Inn. There was a certain

method in the Count’s inquiries, so I shall try to put them down in

sequence; the knowledge may somehow or some time be useful to me.

First, he asked if a man in England might have two solicitors or more. I

told him he might have a dozen if he wished, but that it would not be

wise to have more than one solicitor engaged in one transaction, as only

one could act at a time, and that to change would be certain to militate

against his interest. He seemed thoroughly to understand, and went on to

ask if there would be any practical difficulty in having one man to

attend, say, to banking, and another to look after shipping, in case

local help were needed in a place far from the home of the banking

solicitor. I asked him to explain more fully, so that I might not by any

chance mislead him, so he said:--

“I shall illustrate. Your friend and mine, Mr. Peter Hawkins, from under

the shadow of your beautiful cathedral at Exeter, which is far from

London, buys for me through your good self my place at London. Good! Now

here let me say frankly, lest you should think it strange that I have

sought the services of one so far off from London instead of some one

resident there, that my motive was that no local interest might be

served save my wish only; and as one of London residence might, perhaps,

have some purpose of himself or friend to serve, I went thus afield to

seek my agent, whose labours should be only to my interest. Now, suppose

I, who have much of affairs, wish to ship goods, say, to Newcastle, or

Durham, or Harwich, or Dover, might it not be that it could with more

ease be done by consigning to one in these ports?” I answered that

certainly it would be most easy, but that we solicitors had a system of

agency one for the other, so that local work could be done locally on

instruction from any solicitor, so that the client, simply placing

himself in the hands of one man, could have his wishes carried out by

him without further trouble.

“But,” said he, “I could be at liberty to direct myself. Is it not so?”

“Of course,” I replied; and “such is often done by men of business, who

do not like the whole of their affairs to be known by any one person.”

“Good!” he said, and then went on to ask about the means of making

consignments and the forms to be gone through, and of all sorts of

difficulties which might arise, but by forethought could be guarded

against. I explained all these things to him to the best of my ability,

and he certainly left me under the impression that he would have made a

wonderful solicitor, for there was nothing that he did not think of or

foresee. For a man who was never in the country, and who did not

evidently do much in the way of business, his knowledge and acumen were

wonderful. When he had satisfied himself on these points of which he had

spoken, and I had verified all as well as I could by the books

available, he suddenly stood up and said:--

“Have you written since your first letter to our friend Mr. Peter

Hawkins, or to any other?” It was with some bitterness in my heart that

I answered that I had not, that as yet I had not seen any opportunity of

sending letters to anybody.

“Then write now, my young friend,” he said, laying a heavy hand on my

shoulder: “write to our friend and to any other; and say, if it will

please you, that you shall stay with me until a month from now.”

“Do you wish me to stay so long?” I asked, for my heart grew cold at the

thought.

“I desire it much; nay, I will take no refusal. When your master,