as he had never done before, to what he knew was deadly sin. And the

infectious poison of that sin had been thus rapidly diffused

throughout his moral system. It had stupefied all blessed impulses,

and awakened into vivid life the whole brotherhood of bad ones. Scorn,

bitterness, unprovoked malignity, gratuitous desire of ill, ridicule

of whatever was good and holy, all awoke, to tempt, even while they

frightened him. And his encounter with old Mistress Hibbins, if it

were a real incident, did but show his sympathy and fellowship with

wicked mortals, and the world of perverted spirits.

He had, by this time, reached his dwelling, on the edge of the

burial-ground, and, hastening up the stairs, took refuge in his study.

The minister was glad to have reached this shelter, without first

betraying himself to the world by any of those strange and wicked

eccentricities to which he had been continually impelled while passing

through the streets. He entered the accustomed room, and looked around

him on its books, its windows, its fireplace, and the tapestried

comfort of the walls, with the same perception of strangeness that had

haunted him throughout his walk from the forest-dell into the town,

and thitherward. Here he had studied and written; here, gone through

fast and vigil, and come forth half alive; here, striven to pray;

here, borne a hundred thousand agonies! There was the Bible, in its

rich old Hebrew, with Moses and the Prophets speaking to him, and

God’s voice through all! There, on the table, with the inky pen beside

it, was an unfinished sermon, with a sentence broken in the midst,

where his thoughts had ceased to gush out upon the page, two days

before. He knew that it was himself, the thin and white-cheeked

minister, who had done and suffered these things, and written thus far

into the Election Sermon! But he seemed to stand apart, and eye this

former self with scornful, pitying, but half-envious curiosity. That

self was gone. Another man had returned out of the forest; a wiser

one; with a knowledge of hidden mysteries which the simplicity of the

former never could have reached. A bitter kind of knowledge that!

While occupied with these reflections, a knock came at the door of the

study, and the minister said, “Come in!”—not wholly devoid of an idea

that he might behold an evil spirit. And so he did! It was old Roger

Chillingworth that entered. The minister stood, white and speechless,

with one hand on the Hebrew Scriptures, and the other spread upon his

breast.

“Welcome home, reverend Sir,” said the physician. “And how found you

that godly man, the Apostle Eliot? But methinks, dear Sir, you look

pale; as if the travel through the wilderness had been too sore for

you. Will not my aid be requisite to put you in heart and strength to

preach your Election Sermon?”

“Nay, I think not so,” rejoined the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale. “My

journey, and the sight of the holy Apostle yonder, and the free air

which I have breathed, have done me good, after so long confinement in

my study. I think to need no more of your drugs, my kind physician,

good though they be, and administered by a friendly hand.”

All this time, Roger Chillingworth was looking at the minister with

the grave and intent regard of a physician towards his patient. But,

in spite of this outward show, the latter was almost convinced of the

old man’s knowledge, or, at least, his confident suspicion, with

respect to his own interview with Hester Prynne. The physician knew

then, that, in the minister’s regard, he was no longer a trusted

friend, but his bitterest enemy. So much being known, it would appear

natural that a part of it should be expressed. It is singular,

however, how long a time often passes before words embody things; and

with what security two persons, who choose to avoid a certain subject,

may approach its very verge, and retire without disturbing it. Thus,

the minister felt no apprehension that Roger Chillingworth would

touch, in express words, upon the real position which they sustained

towards one another. Yet did the physician, in his dark way, creep

frightfully near the secret.

“Were it not better,” said he, “that you use my poor skill to-night?

Verily, dear Sir, we must take pains to make you strong and vigorous

for this occasion of the Election discourse. The people look for great

things from you; apprehending that another year may come about, and

find their pastor gone.”

“Yea, to another world,” replied the minister, with pious resignation.

“Heaven grant it be a better one; for, in good sooth, I hardly think

to tarry with my flock through the flitting seasons of another year!