the United States needed aircraft on the western front they need them

now. I want to help all I can, and I also want to help Mary--you

understand--Miss Nestor."

"I understand," said Jackson simply. "I only hope you can help her. But

I'm afraid--this may turn out to be nothing--following these marks, you

know."

"And yet," said Tom slowly, "it would be strange if it was only a

coincidence--the two tire marks being the same--the night Mr. Nestor

disappeared and now."

And so they kept on, hoping.

The half-defined path through the wood-lot led them in a series of

turns and twists, and it extended through a dense patch of woods,

growing thickly, where it was so dark that it seemed as if night had

fallen.

"We can't spend much more time here," said Tom. "If we don't find

something in the next half mile we'll go back and take up the search

to-morrow. I'm going to find out what's at the end of this road--even

if it's only a wood pile."

For ten minutes more the two went on, making sure, by occasional

glimpses at the marks, that they were on the right track. Then,

suddenly, they saw something which made them feel sure they had reached

their goal.

In a clearing among the trees was a little cabin--a shack of logs--and

from the appearance it was deserted. There was not a sign of life

around.

CHAPTER XXII

CLEWS AT LAST

For a moment, at sight of the deserted cabin, staring at Tom and his

friend, as it were, from its hiding place amid the trees, the young

inventor and his companion did not move. They just stood looking at the

place.

"Well," said Tom, at length, "we found it, didn't we?"

"We found something anyhow," agreed Jackson. "Whether it amounts to

anything or not, we've got to see."

"Come on!" cried Tom, impulsively. "I'm going to see what's there."

"There doesn't appear to be much of anything," said Jackson, as he

looked toward the lonely cabin with critical eyes. "I should say that

place hadn't been used, even as a chicken coop, in a long while."

"We can soon tell!" exclaimed Tom, striding forward.

"Wait just a minute!" cried his companion, catching him by the coat.

"Don't be in such a hurry."

"Why not?" asked Tom. "There isn't any danger, is there?"

"I don't know about that. There's no telling who may be hidden in that

cabin, in spite of its deserted appearance. And though there aren't any

'No Trespass' signs up, it may be that we wouldn't be welcome. If there

are some tramps there, which is possible, they might take a notion to

shoot at us first and ask questions as to our peaceable intentions

afterward--when it would be too late."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Tom. "There aren't any tramps there and, if there

were, they wouldn't dare shoot. I'm going to see what the mystery

is--if there is one."

But there was no sign of life, and, taking this as an indication that

their advance would not be disputed, Jackson followed Tom. The latter

advanced until he could take in all the details of the shack. It was

made of logs, and once had been chinked with mud or clay. Some of this

had fallen out, leaving spaces between the tree trunks.

"It wasn't a bad little shack at one time," decided Tom. "Maybe it was

a place where some one camped out during the summer. But it hasn't been

used of late. I never knew there was such a place around here, and I

thought I knew this locality pretty well."

"I never heard of it, either," said Jackson. "Let's give a shout and

see if there's any one around. They may be asleep. Hello, there!" he

called in sufficiently vigorous tones to have awakened an ordinary

sleeper.

Put there was no answer, and as the shadows of the night began to fall,

the place took on a most lonely aspect.

"Let's go up and knock--or go in if the door's open," suggested Tom.