Tom called it.

Waving farewell to the pretty girl, the young aviator turned the auto

about and speeded for his home and the shops adjoining it. His father

had not been well, of late, and Tom was a bit anxious about him.

"Mr. Damon may bother him, though he wouldn't mean to," thought Tom.

"He seemed to have his mind filled with some new idea. I wonder if it

is anything like mine? No, it couldn't be. Well, I'll soon find out,"

and, putting his foot on the accelerator, Tom sent the machine along at

a pace that soon brought him within sight of his home.

"Is father all right?" he asked Mrs. Baggert, who was out on the front

porch, as though waiting for him.

"Oh, yes, Tom, he's all right," the housekeeper answered.

"Is Mr. Damon with him?"

"No."

"He hasn't gone home, has he?"

"No, he's around somewhere. But some one else is with your father. Some

visitors."

"Any relations?"

"No; strangers. They came to see you, and they're rather impatient. I

came out to see if you were in sight. Your father sent me."

"Are they bothering him--talking business that I ought to attend to

when he's ill? That mustn't be."

"Well, I suppose it is business that the strangers are talking over

with your father, Tom," said Mrs. Baggert, "for I heard sums of money

spoken of. But your father seems to be all right, only a trifle anxious

that you should come."

"Well, I'm here now and I'll attend to things. Where are the strangers,

and who are they?"

"I don't know," answered the housekeeper. "I never saw them before, but

they're in the library with your father. Do you think they'll stay to

dinner? If you do, I'll have Eradicate or Koku catch and kill a

chicken."

"If you let one do it don't tell the other about it," said Tom with a

laugh, "or you'll have a chicken race around the yard that will make

the visitors sit up and take notice."

There was great rivalry between Eradicate Sampson, the aged colored

man, and Koku, the giant, and they were continually disputing. Each one

loved and served Tom in his own way, and there was jealousy between

them. Koku, the giant Tom had brought with him from the land where the

young inventor had been made captive, was a big, powerful man, and

could do things the aged colored servant could not attempt. But "Rad,"

as he was often called, and his mule "Boomerang" had long been fixtures

on the Swift homestead. But old age crept on apace with Eradicate,

though he hated to admit it, and Koku did many things the colored man

had formerly attended to, and Rad was always on the lookout not to be

supplanted. Hence Tom's warning to Mrs. Baggert about letting the two

be entrusted with the same mission of catching a chicken for the pot.

"Better get the fowl yourself and say nothing to either of them about

it," Tom advised the housekeeper. "Mr. Damon will stay to dinner, as he

always does when he comes, and as it's near twelve now, and as I may be

delayed talking business to these strangers, you'd better get up a

bigger meal than usual."

"I will, Tom," promised Mrs. Baggert. And then the young inventor,

having seen that one of the men took the automobile to the garage, went

into the house.

"Oh, here you are!" was his father's greeting, as he came out into the

hall from the library. "I've been waiting anxiously for you, my boy. I

couldn't think what was keeping you."

"Oh, I had a little trouble with the air machine--nothing serious."

A moment later Tom was standing before two well-dressed,

prosperous-looking business men, who smiled pleasantly at him.

"Mr. Thomas Swift?" interrogated one, the elder, as he held out his

hand.

"That's my name," answered Tom, pleasantly.

"I'm Peton Gale, and this gentleman is Boland Ware," went on the man

who had taken Tom's hand. "I'm president and he's treasurer of the

Universal Flying Machine Company, of New York."

"Oh, yes," said Tom, as he shook hands with Mr. Ware. "I have heard of

your concern. You are doing a lot of government work, are you not?"