"Well, there's a new man who came to me well recommended. I took him on

last week, and he's a wonderful mechanic. Knows a lot about gas

engines. I could let you have him--Bower his name is. The only thing

about it, though, is that I don't like to give you a man of whom I am

not dead certain, when you're working on a new device."

"Oh, that will be all right," said Tom. "There won't be any secrets he

can get, if you mean you think he might be up to spy work."

"That's what I did mean, Tom. You never can tell, you know, and you

have some bitter enemies."

"Yes, but I'll take care this man doesn't see the plans, or any of my

drawings. I only want some one to do the heavy assembling work on the

experimental muffler I'm getting up. We can let him think it's for a

new kind of automobile."

"Oh, then I guess it will be all right. I'll send Bower to you."

Tom rather liked the new workman, who seemed quiet and efficient. He

did not ask questions, either, about the machine on which he was

engaged, but did as he was told. As Tom had said, he kept his plans and

drawing under lock and key--in a safe to be exact--and he did not think

they were in any danger from his new helper.

But Tom Swift held into altogether too slight regard the powers of

those who were opposed to him. He did not appreciate the depths to

which they would stoop to gain their ends.

He had been working hard on his new device, and had reached a point

further along than when the other motor had exploded. He began to see

success ahead of him, and he was jubilant. Whether this made him

careless does not matter, but the fact was that he left Bower more to

himself, and alone in the experimental shop several times.

And it was on one of these occasions, when Tom had been for some time

in one of the other shops, where he and Jackson were in consultation

over a new machine, that as he came back to the test room unexpectedly,

he saw Bower move hastily away from in front of the safe. Moreover, Tom

was almost certain he had heard the steel door clang shut as he

approached the building.

And then, before he could ask his helper a question, Tom looked from a

window and saw a stranger running hastily along the side of the

building where his trial motor was being set up.

"Who's that? Who is that man? Did he come in here? Was he tampering

with my safe?" cried Tom. He saw Bower hesitate and change color, and

Tom knew it was time to act.

The window was open, and with one bound the young inventor was out and

running after the stranger he had seen departing in such a hurry. The

man was but a short distance ahead of him, and Tom saw he was stuffing

some papers into his pocket.

"Here! Come back! Stop!" ordered Tom, but the man ran on the faster.

"That's a spy as sure as guns!" reflected Tom Swift. "And Bower is in

with him!" he added. "I've got to catch that fellow!" and he speeded

his pace as he ran after the fellow.

CHAPTER X

A BIG SPLASH

There was no question in the mind of Tom Swift but that the man he was

running after was guilty of some wrong-doing. In the first place he was

a stranger, and had no right inside the big fence that surrounded the

Swift machine plant. Then, too, the very fact that he ran away was

suspicious.

And this, coupled with the confusion on the part of Bower, and his

proximity to the safe, made Tom fear that some of his plans had been

stolen. These he was very anxious to recover if this strange man had

them, and so he raced after him with all speed.

"Stop! Stop!" called Tom, but the on-racing stranger did not heed.

The cries of the young inventor soon attracted the attention of his

men, and Jackson and some of the others came running from their various

shops to give whatever aid was needed. But they were all too far away

to give effective chase.

"Bower might have come with me if he had wanted to help," thought Tom.