garb that precisely became it best. But little Pearl was not clad in

rustic weeds. Her mother, with a morbid purpose that may be better

understood hereafter, had bought the richest tissues that could be

procured, and allowed her imaginative faculty its full play in the

arrangement and decoration of the dresses which the child wore, before

the public eye. So magnificent was the small figure, when thus

arrayed, and such was the splendor of Pearl’s own proper beauty,

shining through the gorgeous robes which might have extinguished a

paler loveliness, that there was an absolute circle of radiance around

her, on the darksome cottage floor. And yet a russet gown, torn and

soiled with the child’s rude play, made a picture of her just as

perfect. Pearl’s aspect was imbued with a spell of infinite variety;

in this one child there were many children, comprehending the full

scope between the wild-flower prettiness of a peasant-baby, and the

pomp, in little, of an infant princess. Throughout all, however, there

was a trait of passion, a certain depth of hue, which she never lost;

and if, in any of her changes, she had grown fainter or paler, she

would have ceased to be herself,—it would have been no longer Pearl!

This outward mutability indicated, and did not more than fairly

express, the various properties of her inner life. Her nature appeared

to possess depth, too, as well as variety; but—or else Hester’s fears

deceived her—it lacked reference and adaptation to the world into

which she was born. The child could not be made amenable to rules. In

giving her existence, a great law had been broken; and the result was

a being whose elements were perhaps beautiful and brilliant, but all

in disorder; or with an order peculiar to themselves, amidst which the

point of variety and arrangement was difficult or impossible to be

discovered. Hester could only account for the child’s character—and

even then most vaguely and imperfectly—by recalling what she herself

had been, during that momentous period while Pearl was imbibing her

soul from the spiritual world, and her bodily frame from its material

of earth. The mother’s impassioned state had been the medium through

which were transmitted to the unborn infant the rays of its moral

life; and, however white and clear originally, they had taken the deep

stains of crimson and gold, the fiery lustre, the black shadow, and

the untempered light of the intervening substance. Above all, the

warfare of Hester’s spirit, at that epoch, was perpetuated in Pearl.

She could recognize her wild, desperate, defiant mood, the flightiness

of her temper, and even some of the very cloud-shapes of gloom and

despondency that had brooded in her heart. They were now illuminated

by the morning radiance of a young child’s disposition, but later in

the day of earthly existence might be prolific of the storm and

whirlwind.

The discipline of the family, in those days, was of a far more rigid

kind than now. The frown, the harsh rebuke, the frequent application

of the rod, enjoined by Scriptural authority, were used, not merely in

the way of punishment for actual offences, but as a wholesome regimen

for the growth and promotion of all childish virtues. Hester Prynne,

nevertheless, the lonely mother of this one child, ran little risk of

erring on the side of undue severity. Mindful, however, of her own

errors and misfortunes, she early sought to impose a tender, but

strict control over the infant immortality that was committed to her

charge. But the task was beyond her skill. After testing both smiles

and frowns, and proving that neither mode of treatment possessed any

calculable influence, Hester was ultimately compelled to stand aside,

and permit the child to be swayed by her own impulses. Physical

compulsion or restraint was effectual, of course, while it lasted. As

to any other kind of discipline, whether addressed to her mind or

heart, little Pearl might or might not be within its reach, in

accordance with the caprice that ruled the moment. Her mother, while

Pearl was yet an infant, grew acquainted with a certain peculiar look,

that warned her when it would be labor thrown away to insist,

persuade, or plead. It was a look so intelligent, yet inexplicable,

so perverse, sometimes so malicious, but generally accompanied by a

wild flow of spirits, that Hester could not help questioning, at such

moments, whether Pearl were a human child. She seemed rather an airy

sprite, which, after playing its fantastic sports for a little while

upon the cottage floor, would flit away with a mocking smile. Whenever

that look appeared in her wild, bright, deeply black eyes, it invested

her with a strange remoteness and intangibility; it was as if she were

hovering in the air and might vanish, like a glimmering light, that

comes we know not whence, and goes we know not whither. Beholding it,

Hester was constrained to rush towards the child,—to pursue the

little elf in the flight which she invariably began,—to snatch her to