What is her burying graue that is her wombe:

And from her wombe children of diuers kind

We sucking on her naturall bosome find:

Many for many vertues excellent:

None but for some, and yet all different.

O mickle is the powerfull grace that lies

In Plants, Hearbs, stones, and their true qualities:

For nought so vile, that on earth doth liue,

But to the earth some speciall good doth giue.

Nor ought so good, but strain'd from that faire vse,

Reuolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse.

Vertue it selfe turnes vice being misapplied,

And vice sometime by action dignified.

Enter Romeo.

Within the infant rind of this weake flower,

Poyson hath residence, and medicine power:

For this being smelt, with that part cheares each part,

Being tasted stayes all sences with the heart.

Two such opposed Kings encampe them still,

In man as well as Hearbes, grace and rude will:

And where the worser is predominant,

Full soone the Canker death eates vp that Plant

 Rom. Good morrow Father

 Fri. Benedecite.

What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?

Young Sonne, it argues a distempered head,

So soone to bid goodmorrow to thy bed;

Care keepes his watch in euery old mans eye,

And where Care lodges, sleepe will neuer lye:

But where vnbrused youth with vnstuft braine

Doth couch his lims, there, golden sleepe doth raigne;

Therefore thy earlinesse doth me assure,

Thou art vprous'd with some distemprature;

Or if not so, then here I hit it right.

Our Romeo hath not beene in bed to night

 Rom. That last is true, the sweeter rest was mine

 Fri. God pardon sin: wast thou with Rosaline?

 Rom. With Rosaline, my ghostly Father? No,

I haue forgot that name, and that names woe

 Fri. That's my good Son, but wher hast thou bin then?

 Rom. Ile tell thee ere thou aske it me agen:

I haue beene feasting with mine enemie,

Where on a sudden one hath wounded me,

That's by me wounded: both our remedies

Within thy helpe and holy phisicke lies:

I beare no hatred, blessed man: for loe

My intercession likewise steads my foe

 Fri. Be plaine good Son, rest homely in thy drift,

Ridling confession, findes but ridling shrift

 Rom. Then plainly know my hearts deare Loue is set,

On the faire daughter of rich Capulet:

As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;

And all combin'd, saue what thou must combine

By holy marriage: when and where, and how,

We met, we wooed, and made exchange of vow:

Ile tell thee as we passe, but this I pray,

That thou consent to marrie vs to day

 Fri. Holy S[aint]. Francis, what a change is heere?

Is Rosaline that thou didst Loue so deare

So soone forsaken? young mens Loue then lies

Not truely in their hearts, but in their eyes.

Iesu Maria, what a deale of brine

Hath washt thy sallow cheekes for Rosaline?

How much salt water throwne away in wast,

To season Loue that of it doth not tast.

The Sun not yet thy sighes, from heauen cleares,

Thy old grones yet ringing in my auncient eares:

Lo here vpon thy cheeke the staine doth sit,

Of an old teare that is not washt off yet.

If ere thou wast thy selfe, and these woes thine,

Thou and these woes, were all for Rosaline.

And art thou chang'd? pronounce this sentence then,

Women may fall, when there's no strength in men

 Rom. Thou chid'st me oft for louing Rosaline

 Fri. For doting, not for louing pupill mine

 Rom. And bad'st me bury Loue

 Fri. Not in a graue,

To lay one in, another out to haue

 Rom. I pray thee chide me not, her I Loue now

Doth grace for grace, and Loue for Loue allow:

The other did not so

 Fri. O she knew well,

Thy Loue did read by rote, that could not spell:

But come young wauerer, come goe with me,

In one respect, Ile thy assistant be:

For this alliance may so happy proue,

To turne your houshould rancor to pure Loue