have already told thee what I am! A fiend! Who made me so?”

“It was myself!” cried Hester, shuddering. “It was I, not less than

he. Why hast thou not avenged thyself on me?”

“I have left thee to the scarlet letter,” replied Roger Chillingworth.

“If that have not avenged me, I can do no more!”

He laid his finger on it, with a smile.

“It has avenged thee!” answered Hester Prynne.

“I judged no less,” said the physician. “And now, what wouldst thou

with me touching this man?”

“I must reveal the secret,” answered Hester, firmly. “He must discern

thee in thy true character. What may be the result, I know not. But

this long debt of confidence, due from me to him, whose bane and ruin

I have been, shall at length be paid. So far as concerns the overthrow

or preservation of his fair fame and his earthly state, and perchance

his life, he is in thy hands. Nor do I,—whom the scarlet letter has

disciplined to truth, though it be the truth of red-hot iron, entering

into the soul,—nor do I perceive such advantage in his living any

longer a life of ghastly emptiness, that I shall stoop to implore thy

mercy. Do with him as thou wilt! There is no good for him,—no good

for me,—no good for thee! There is no good for little Pearl! There is

no path to guide us out of this dismal maze!”

“Woman, I could wellnigh pity thee!” said Roger Chillingworth, unable

to restrain a thrill of admiration too; for there was a quality almost

majestic in the despair which she expressed. “Thou hadst great

elements. Peradventure, hadst thou met earlier with a better love than

mine, this evil had not been. I pity thee, for the good that has been

wasted in thy nature!”

“And I thee,” answered Hester Prynne, “for the hatred that has

transformed a wise and just man to a fiend! Wilt thou yet purge it out

of thee, and be once more human? If not for his sake, then doubly for

thine own! Forgive, and leave his further retribution to the Power

that claims it! I said, but now, that there could be no good event for

him, or thee, or me, who are here wandering together in this gloomy

maze of evil, and stumbling, at every step, over the guilt wherewith

we have strewn our path. It is not so! There might be good for thee,

and thee alone, since thou hast been deeply wronged, and hast it at

thy will to pardon. Wilt thou give up that only privilege? Wilt thou

reject that priceless benefit?”

“Peace, Hester, peace!” replied the old man, with gloomy sternness.

“It is not granted me to pardon. I have no such power as thou tellest

me of. My old faith, long forgotten, comes back to me, and explains

all that we do, and all we suffer. By thy first step awry thou didst

plant the germ of evil; but since that moment, it has all been a dark

necessity. Ye that have wronged me are not sinful, save in a kind of

typical illusion; neither am I fiend-like, who have snatched a fiend’s

office from his hands. It is our fate. Let the black flower blossom as

it may! Now go thy ways, and deal as thou wilt with yonder man.”

He waved his hand, and betook himself again to his employment of

gathering herbs.

[Illustration: Mandrake]

 [Illustration]

 XV.

 HESTER AND PEARL.

So Roger Chillingworth—a deformed old figure, with a face that

haunted men’s memories longer than they liked—took leave of Hester

Prynne, and went stooping away along the earth. He gathered here and

there an herb, or grubbed up a root, and put it into the basket on his

arm. His gray beard almost touched the ground, as he crept onward.

Hester gazed after him a little while, looking with a half-fantastic

curiosity to see whether the tender grass of early spring would not be

blighted beneath him, and show the wavering track of his footsteps,

sere and brown, across its cheerful verdure. She wondered what sort of

herbs they were, which the old man was so sedulous to gather. Would