mother’s side, and thrown her into the pathway of this sorely tempted,

or—shall we not rather say?—this lost and desperate man. As she drew

nigh, the arch-fiend whispered him to condense into small compass and

drop into her tender bosom a germ of evil that would be sure to

blossom darkly soon, and bear black fruit betimes. Such was his sense

of power over this virgin soul, trusting him as she did, that the

minister felt potent to blight all the field of innocence with but one

wicked look, and develop all its opposite with but a word. So—with a

mightier struggle than he had yet sustained—he held his Geneva cloak

before his face, and hurried onward, making no sign of recognition,

and leaving the young sister to digest his rudeness as she might. She

ransacked her conscience,—which was full of harmless little matters,

like her pocket or her work-bag,—and took herself to task, poor

thing! for a thousand imaginary faults; and went about her household

duties with swollen eyelids the next morning.

Before the minister had time to celebrate his victory over this last

temptation, he was conscious of another impulse, more ludicrous, and

almost as horrible. It was,—we blush to tell it,—it was to stop

short in the road, and teach some very wicked words to a knot of

little Puritan children who were playing there, and had but just begun

to talk. Denying himself this freak, as unworthy of his cloth, he met

a drunken seaman, one of the ship’s crew from the Spanish Main. And,

here, since he had so valiantly forborne all other wickedness, poor

Mr. Dimmesdale longed, at least, to shake hands with the tarry

blackguard, and recreate himself with a few improper jests, such as

dissolute sailors so abound with, and a volley of good, round, solid,

satisfactory, and heaven-defying oaths! It was not so much a better

principle as partly his natural good taste, and still more his

buckramed habit of clerical decorum, that carried him safely through

the latter crisis.

“What is it that haunts and tempts me thus?” cried the minister to

himself, at length, pausing in the street, and striking his hand

against his forehead. “Am I mad? or am I given over utterly to the

fiend? Did I make a contract with him in the forest, and sign it with

my blood? And does he now summon me to its fulfilment, by suggesting

the performance of every wickedness which his most foul imagination

can conceive?”

At the moment when the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale thus communed with

himself, and struck his forehead with his hand, old Mistress Hibbins,

the reputed witch-lady, is said to have been passing by. She made a

very grand appearance; having on a high head-dress, a rich gown of

velvet, and a ruff done up with the famous yellow starch, of which Ann

Turner, her especial friend, had taught her the secret, before this

last good lady had been hanged for Sir Thomas Overbury’s murder.

Whether the witch had read the minister’s thoughts, or no, she came to

a full stop, looked shrewdly into his face, smiled craftily,

and—though little given to converse with clergymen—began a

conversation.

“So, reverend Sir, you have made a visit into the forest,” observed

the witch-lady, nodding her high head-dress at him. “The next time, I

pray you to allow me only a fair warning, and I shall be proud to bear

you company. Without taking overmuch upon myself, my good word will go

far towards gaining any strange gentleman a fair reception from yonder

potentate you wot of!”

“I profess, madam,” answered the clergyman, with a grave obeisance,

such as the lady’s rank demanded, and his own good-breeding made

imperative,—“I profess, on my conscience and character, that I am

utterly bewildered as touching the purport of your words! I went not

into the forest to seek a potentate; neither do I, at any future time,

design a visit thither, with a view to gaining the favor of such a

personage. My one sufficient object was to greet that pious friend of

mine, the Apostle Eliot, and rejoice with him over the many precious

souls he hath won from heathendom!”

“Ha, ha, ha!” cackled the old witch-lady, still nodding her high

head-dress at the minister. “Well, well, we must needs talk thus in

the daytime! You carry it off like an old hand! But at midnight, and

in the forest, we shall have other talk together!”

She passed on with her aged stateliness, but often turning back her

head and smiling at him, like one willing to recognize a secret

intimacy of connection.

“Have I then sold myself,” thought the minister, “to the fiend whom,

if men say true, this yellow-starched and velveted old hag has chosen

for her prince and master!”

The wretched minister! He had made a bargain very like it! Tempted by

a dream of happiness, he had yielded himself, with deliberate choice,