his face convulsed with fear. “Save me! save me!” he cried, and then

looked round on the blanket of fog. His horror turned to despair, and in

a steady voice he said: “You had better come too, captain, before it is

too late. _He_ is there. I know the secret now. The sea will save me

from Him, and it is all that is left!” Before I could say a word, or

move forward to seize him, he sprang on the bulwark and deliberately

threw himself into the sea. I suppose I know the secret too, now. It was

this madman who had got rid of the men one by one, and now he has

followed them himself. God help me! How am I to account for all these

horrors when I get to port? _When_ I get to port! Will that ever be?

 * * * * *

_4 August._--Still fog, which the sunrise cannot pierce. I know there is

sunrise because I am a sailor, why else I know not. I dared not go

below, I dared not leave the helm; so here all night I stayed, and in

the dimness of the night I saw It--Him! God forgive me, but the mate was

right to jump overboard. It was better to die like a man; to die like a

sailor in blue water no man can object. But I am captain, and I must not

leave my ship. But I shall baffle this fiend or monster, for I shall tie

my hands to the wheel when my strength begins to fail, and along with

them I shall tie that which He--It!--dare not touch; and then, come good

wind or foul, I shall save my soul, and my honour as a captain. I am

growing weaker, and the night is coming on. If He can look me in the

face again, I may not have time to act.... If we are wrecked, mayhap

this bottle may be found, and those who find it may understand; if not,

... well, then all men shall know that I have been true to my trust. God

and the Blessed Virgin and the saints help a poor ignorant soul trying

to do his duty....

 * * * * *

Of course the verdict was an open one. There is no evidence to adduce;

and whether or not the man himself committed the murders there is now

none to say. The folk here hold almost universally that the captain is

simply a hero, and he is to be given a public funeral. Already it is

arranged that his body is to be taken with a train of boats up the Esk

for a piece and then brought back to Tate Hill Pier and up the abbey

steps; for he is to be buried in the churchyard on the cliff. The owners

of more than a hundred boats have already given in their names as

wishing to follow him to the grave.

No trace has ever been found of the great dog; at which there is much

mourning, for, with public opinion in its present state, he would, I

believe, be adopted by the town. To-morrow will see the funeral; and so

will end this one more “mystery of the sea.”

_Mina Murray’s Journal._

_8 August._--Lucy was very restless all night, and I, too, could not

sleep. The storm was fearful, and as it boomed loudly among the

chimney-pots, it made me shudder. When a sharp puff came it seemed to be

like a distant gun. Strangely enough, Lucy did not wake; but she got up

twice and dressed herself. Fortunately, each time I awoke in time and

managed to undress her without waking her, and got her back to bed. It

is a very strange thing, this sleep-walking, for as soon as her will is

thwarted in any physical way, her intention, if there be any,

disappears, and she yields herself almost exactly to the routine of her

life.

Early in the morning we both got up and went down to the harbour to see

if anything had happened in the night. There were very few people about,

and though the sun was bright, and the air clear and fresh, the big,

grim-looking waves, that seemed dark themselves because the foam that

topped them was like snow, forced themselves in through the narrow mouth

of the harbour--like a bullying man going through a crowd. Somehow I

felt glad that Jonathan was not on the sea last night, but on land. But,

oh, is he on land or sea? Where is he, and how? I am getting fearfully

anxious about him. If I only knew what to do, and could do anything!