times, and of heavy, lethargic sleep, with dreams that frighten her, but

regarding which she can remember nothing. She says that as a child she

used to walk in her sleep, and that when in Whitby the habit came back,

and that once she walked out in the night and went to East Cliff, where

Miss Murray found her; but she assures me that of late the habit has not

returned. I am in doubt, and so have done the best thing I know of; I

have written to my old friend and master, Professor Van Helsing, of

Amsterdam, who knows as much about obscure diseases as any one in the

world. I have asked him to come over, and as you told me that all things

were to be at your charge, I have mentioned to him who you are and your

relations to Miss Westenra. This, my dear fellow, is in obedience to

your wishes, for I am only too proud and happy to do anything I can for

her. Van Helsing would, I know, do anything for me for a personal

reason, so, no matter on what ground he comes, we must accept his

wishes. He is a seemingly arbitrary man, but this is because he knows

what he is talking about better than any one else. He is a philosopher

and a metaphysician, and one of the most advanced scientists of his day;

and he has, I believe, an absolutely open mind. This, with an iron

nerve, a temper of the ice-brook, an indomitable resolution,

self-command, and toleration exalted from virtues to blessings, and the

kindliest and truest heart that beats--these form his equipment for the

noble work that he is doing for mankind--work both in theory and

practice, for his views are as wide as his all-embracing sympathy. I

tell you these facts that you may know why I have such confidence in

him. I have asked him to come at once. I shall see Miss Westenra

to-morrow again. She is to meet me at the Stores, so that I may not

alarm her mother by too early a repetition of my call.

“Yours always,

“JOHN SEWARD.”

_Letter, Abraham Van Helsing, M. D., D. Ph., D. Lit., etc., etc., to Dr.

Seward._

“_2 September._

“My good Friend,--

“When I have received your letter I am already coming to you. By good

fortune I can leave just at once, without wrong to any of those who have

trusted me. Were fortune other, then it were bad for those who have

trusted, for I come to my friend when he call me to aid those he holds

dear. Tell your friend that when that time you suck from my wound so

swiftly the poison of the gangrene from that knife that our other

friend, too nervous, let slip, you did more for him when he wants my

aids and you call for them than all his great fortune could do. But it

is pleasure added to do for him, your friend; it is to you that I come.

Have then rooms for me at the Great Eastern Hotel, so that I may be near

to hand, and please it so arrange that we may see the young lady not too

late on to-morrow, for it is likely that I may have to return here that

night. But if need be I shall come again in three days, and stay longer

if it must. Till then good-bye, my friend John.

 “VAN HELSING.”

_Letter, Dr. Seward to Hon. Arthur Holmwood._

“_3 September._

“My dear Art,--

“Van Helsing has come and gone. He came on with me to Hillingham, and

found that, by Lucy’s discretion, her mother was lunching out, so that

we were alone with her. Van Helsing made a very careful examination of

the patient. He is to report to me, and I shall advise you, for of

course I was not present all the time. He is, I fear, much concerned,

but says he must think. When I told him of our friendship and how you

trust to me in the matter, he said: ‘You must tell him all you think.

Tell him what I think, if you can guess it, if you will. Nay, I am not

jesting. This is no jest, but life and death, perhaps more.’ I asked

what he meant by that, for he was very serious. This was when we had

come back to town, and he was having a cup of tea before starting on his

return to Amsterdam. He would not give me any further clue. You must not

be angry with me, Art, because his very reticence means that all his

brains are working for her good. He will speak plainly enough when the

time comes, be sure. So I told him I would simply write an account of