expected. True, we did not know whence, or how, or when, the bolt would

come; but I think we all expected that something strange would happen.

The delay of arrival at Varna made us individually satisfied that things

would not be just as we had expected; we only waited to learn where the

change would occur. None the less, however, was it a surprise. I suppose

that nature works on such a hopeful basis that we believe against

ourselves that things will be as they ought to be, not as we should know

that they will be. Transcendentalism is a beacon to the angels, even if

it be a will-o’-the-wisp to man. It was an odd experience and we all

took it differently. Van Helsing raised his hand over his head for a

moment, as though in remonstrance with the Almighty; but he said not a

word, and in a few seconds stood up with his face sternly set. Lord

Godalming grew very pale, and sat breathing heavily. I was myself half

stunned and looked in wonder at one after another. Quincey Morris

tightened his belt with that quick movement which I knew so well; in our

old wandering days it meant “action.” Mrs. Harker grew ghastly white, so

that the scar on her forehead seemed to burn, but she folded her hands

meekly and looked up in prayer. Harker smiled--actually smiled--the

dark, bitter smile of one who is without hope; but at the same time his

action belied his words, for his hands instinctively sought the hilt of

the great Kukri knife and rested there. “When does the next train start

for Galatz?” said Van Helsing to us generally.

“At 6:30 to-morrow morning!” We all started, for the answer came from

Mrs. Harker.

“How on earth do you know?” said Art.

“You forget--or perhaps you do not know, though Jonathan does and so

does Dr. Van Helsing--that I am the train fiend. At home in Exeter I

always used to make up the time-tables, so as to be helpful to my

husband. I found it so useful sometimes, that I always make a study of

the time-tables now. I knew that if anything were to take us to Castle

Dracula we should go by Galatz, or at any rate through Bucharest, so I

learned the times very carefully. Unhappily there are not many to learn,

as the only train to-morrow leaves as I say.”

“Wonderful woman!” murmured the Professor.

“Can’t we get a special?” asked Lord Godalming. Van Helsing shook his

head: “I fear not. This land is very different from yours or mine; even

if we did have a special, it would probably not arrive as soon as our

regular train. Moreover, we have something to prepare. We must think.

Now let us organize. You, friend Arthur, go to the train and get the

tickets and arrange that all be ready for us to go in the morning. Do

you, friend Jonathan, go to the agent of the ship and get from him

letters to the agent in Galatz, with authority to make search the ship

just as it was here. Morris Quincey, you see the Vice-Consul, and get

his aid with his fellow in Galatz and all he can do to make our way

smooth, so that no times be lost when over the Danube. John will stay

with Madam Mina and me, and we shall consult. For so if time be long you

may be delayed; and it will not matter when the sun set, since I am here

with Madam to make report.”

“And I,” said Mrs. Harker brightly, and more like her old self than she

had been for many a long day, “shall try to be of use in all ways, and

shall think and write for you as I used to do. Something is shifting

from me in some strange way, and I feel freer than I have been of late!”

The three younger men looked happier at the moment as they seemed to

realise the significance of her words; but Van Helsing and I, turning to

each other, met each a grave and troubled glance. We said nothing at the

time, however.

When the three men had gone out to their tasks Van Helsing asked Mrs.

Harker to look up the copy of the diaries and find him the part of

Harker’s journal at the Castle. She went away to get it; when the door

was shut upon her he said to me:--

“We mean the same! speak out!”

“There is some change. It is a hope that makes me sick, for it may

deceive us.”

“Quite so. Do you know why I asked her to get the manuscript?”

“No!” said I, “unless it was to get an opportunity of seeing me alone.”

“You are in part right, friend John, but only in part. I want to tell

you something. And oh, my friend, I am taking a great--a terrible--risk;