the diaries of Harker and the rest, and read them, and then find this

great Un-Dead, and cut off his head and burn his heart or drive a stake

through it, so that the world may rest from him.

“If it be so, farewell.

“VAN HELSING.”

_Dr. Seward’s Diary._

_28 September._--It is wonderful what a good night’s sleep will do for

one. Yesterday I was almost willing to accept Van Helsing’s monstrous

ideas; but now they seem to start out lurid before me as outrages on

common sense. I have no doubt that he believes it all. I wonder if his

mind can have become in any way unhinged. Surely there must be _some_

rational explanation of all these mysterious things. Is it possible that

the Professor can have done it himself? He is so abnormally clever that

if he went off his head he would carry out his intent with regard to

some fixed idea in a wonderful way. I am loath to think it, and indeed

it would be almost as great a marvel as the other to find that Van

Helsing was mad; but anyhow I shall watch him carefully. I may get some

light on the mystery.

 * * * * *

_29 September, morning._.... Last night, at a little before ten o’clock,

Arthur and Quincey came into Van Helsing’s room; he told us all that he

wanted us to do, but especially addressing himself to Arthur, as if all

our wills were centred in his. He began by saying that he hoped we would

all come with him too, “for,” he said, “there is a grave duty to be done

there. You were doubtless surprised at my letter?” This query was

directly addressed to Lord Godalming.

“I was. It rather upset me for a bit. There has been so much trouble

around my house of late that I could do without any more. I have been

curious, too, as to what you mean. Quincey and I talked it over; but the

more we talked, the more puzzled we got, till now I can say for myself

that I’m about up a tree as to any meaning about anything.”

“Me too,” said Quincey Morris laconically.

“Oh,” said the Professor, “then you are nearer the beginning, both of

you, than friend John here, who has to go a long way back before he can

even get so far as to begin.”

It was evident that he recognised my return to my old doubting frame of

mind without my saying a word. Then, turning to the other two, he said

with intense gravity:--

“I want your permission to do what I think good this night. It is, I

know, much to ask; and when you know what it is I propose to do you will

know, and only then, how much. Therefore may I ask that you promise me

in the dark, so that afterwards, though you may be angry with me for a

time--I must not disguise from myself the possibility that such may

be--you shall not blame yourselves for anything.”

“That’s frank anyhow,” broke in Quincey. “I’ll answer for the Professor.

I don’t quite see his drift, but I swear he’s honest; and that’s good

enough for me.”

“I thank you, sir,” said Van Helsing proudly. “I have done myself the

honour of counting you one trusting friend, and such endorsement is dear

to me.” He held out a hand, which Quincey took.

Then Arthur spoke out:--

“Dr. Van Helsing, I don’t quite like to ‘buy a pig in a poke,’ as they

say in Scotland, and if it be anything in which my honour as a gentleman

or my faith as a Christian is concerned, I cannot make such a promise.

If you can assure me that what you intend does not violate either of

these two, then I give my consent at once; though for the life of me, I

cannot understand what you are driving at.”

“I accept your limitation,” said Van Helsing, “and all I ask of you is

that if you feel it necessary to condemn any act of mine, you will first

consider it well and be satisfied that it does not violate your

reservations.”

“Agreed!” said Arthur; “that is only fair. And now that the

_pourparlers_ are over, may I ask what it is we are to do?”

“I want you to come with me, and to come in secret, to the churchyard at

Kingstead.”

Arthur’s face fell as he said in an amazed sort of way:--

“Where poor Lucy is buried?” The Professor bowed. Arthur went on: “And

when there?”

“To enter the tomb!” Arthur stood up.

“Professor, are you in earnest; or it is some monstrous joke? Pardon me,

I see that you are in earnest.” He sat down again, but I could see that

he sat firmly and proudly, as one who is on his dignity. There was

silence until he asked again:--

“And when in the tomb?”