comfort than any I had seen. The windows were curtainless, and the

yellow moonlight, flooding in through the diamond panes, enabled one to

see even colours, whilst it softened the wealth of dust which lay over

all and disguised in some measure the ravages of time and the moth. My

lamp seemed to be of little effect in the brilliant moonlight, but I was

glad to have it with me, for there was a dread loneliness in the place

which chilled my heart and made my nerves tremble. Still, it was better

than living alone in the rooms which I had come to hate from the

presence of the Count, and after trying a little to school my nerves, I

found a soft quietude come over me. Here I am, sitting at a little oak

table where in old times possibly some fair lady sat to pen, with much

thought and many blushes, her ill-spelt love-letter, and writing in my

diary in shorthand all that has happened since I closed it last. It is

nineteenth century up-to-date with a vengeance. And yet, unless my

senses deceive me, the old centuries had, and have, powers of their own

which mere “modernity” cannot kill.

 * * * * *

_Later: the Morning of 16 May._--God preserve my sanity, for to this I

am reduced. Safety and the assurance of safety are things of the past.

Whilst I live on here there is but one thing to hope for, that I may not

go mad, if, indeed, I be not mad already. If I be sane, then surely it

is maddening to think that of all the foul things that lurk in this

hateful place the Count is the least dreadful to me; that to him alone I

can look for safety, even though this be only whilst I can serve his

purpose. Great God! merciful God! Let me be calm, for out of that way

lies madness indeed. I begin to get new lights on certain things which

have puzzled me. Up to now I never quite knew what Shakespeare meant

when he made Hamlet say:--

 “My tablets! quick, my tablets!

 ’Tis meet that I put it down,” etc.,

for now, feeling as though my own brain were unhinged or as if the shock

had come which must end in its undoing, I turn to my diary for repose.

The habit of entering accurately must help to soothe me.

The Count’s mysterious warning frightened me at the time; it frightens

me more now when I think of it, for in future he has a fearful hold upon

me. I shall fear to doubt what he may say!

When I had written in my diary and had fortunately replaced the book and

pen in my pocket I felt sleepy. The Count’s warning came into my mind,

but I took a pleasure in disobeying it. The sense of sleep was upon me,

and with it the obstinacy which sleep brings as outrider. The soft

moonlight soothed, and the wide expanse without gave a sense of freedom

which refreshed me. I determined not to return to-night to the

gloom-haunted rooms, but to sleep here, where, of old, ladies had sat

and sung and lived sweet lives whilst their gentle breasts were sad for

their menfolk away in the midst of remorseless wars. I drew a great

couch out of its place near the corner, so that as I lay, I could look

at the lovely view to east and south, and unthinking of and uncaring for

the dust, composed myself for sleep. I suppose I must have fallen

asleep; I hope so, but I fear, for all that followed was startlingly

real--so real that now sitting here in the broad, full sunlight of the

morning, I cannot in the least believe that it was all sleep.

I was not alone. The room was the same, unchanged in any way since I

came into it; I could see along the floor, in the brilliant moonlight,

my own footsteps marked where I had disturbed the long accumulation of

dust. In the moonlight opposite me were three young women, ladies by

their dress and manner. I thought at the time that I must be dreaming

when I saw them, for, though the moonlight was behind them, they threw

no shadow on the floor. They came close to me, and looked at me for some

time, and then whispered together. Two were dark, and had high aquiline

noses, like the Count, and great dark, piercing eyes that seemed to be

almost red when contrasted with the pale yellow moon. The other was

fair, as fair as can be, with great wavy masses of golden hair and eyes

like pale sapphires. I seemed somehow to know her face, and to know it

in connection with some dreamy fear, but I could not recollect at the

moment how or where. All three had brilliant white teeth that shone like

pearls against the ruby of their voluptuous lips. There was something

about them that made me uneasy, some longing and at the same time some

deadly fear. I felt in my heart a wicked, burning desire that they would