walking on all-fours. He possessed no power of thought, no depth of

feeling, no troublesome sensibilities; nothing, in short, but a few

commonplace instincts, which, aided by the cheerful temper that grew

inevitably out of his physical well-being, did duty very respectably,

and to general acceptance, in lieu of a heart. He had been the husband

of three wives, all long since dead; the father of twenty children,

most of whom, at every age of childhood or maturity, had likewise

returned to dust. Here, one would suppose, might have been sorrow

enough to imbue the sunniest disposition, through and through, with a

sable tinge. Not so with our old Inspector! One brief sigh sufficed to

carry off the entire burden of these dismal reminiscences. The next

moment, he was as ready for sport as any unbreeched infant; far

readier than the Collector’s junior clerk, who, at nineteen years, was

much the elder and graver man of the two.

I used to watch and study this patriarchal personage with, I think,

livelier curiosity, than any other form of humanity there presented to

my notice. He was, in truth, a rare phenomenon; so perfect, in one

point of view; so shallow, so delusive, so impalpable, such an

absolute nonentity, in every other. My conclusion was that he had no

soul, no heart, no mind; nothing, as I have already said, but

instincts: and yet, withal, so cunningly had the few materials of his

character been put together, that there was no painful perception of

deficiency, but, on my part, an entire contentment with what I found

in him. It might be difficult—and it was so—to conceive how he

should exist hereafter, so earthly and sensuous did he seem; but

surely his existence here, admitting that it was to terminate with his

last breath, had been not unkindly given; with no higher moral

responsibilities than the beasts of the field, but with a larger scope

of enjoyment than theirs, and with all their blessed immunity from the

dreariness and duskiness of age.

One point, in which he had vastly the advantage over his four-footed

brethren, was his ability to recollect the good dinners which it had

made no small portion of the happiness of his life to eat. His

gourmandism was a highly agreeable trait; and to hear him talk of

roast-meat was as appetizing as a pickle or an oyster. As he

possessed no higher attribute, and neither sacrificed nor vitiated any

spiritual endowment by devoting all his energies and ingenuities to

subserve the delight and profit of his maw, it always pleased and

satisfied me to hear him expatiate on fish, poultry, and butcher’s

meat, and the most eligible methods of preparing them for the table.

His reminiscences of good cheer, however ancient the date of the

actual banquet, seemed to bring the savor of pig or turkey under one’s

very nostrils. There were flavors on his palate that had lingered

there not less than sixty or seventy years, and were still apparently

as fresh as that of the mutton-chop which he had just devoured for his

breakfast. I have heard him smack his lips over dinners, every guest

at which, except himself, had long been food for worms. It was

marvellous to observe how the ghosts of bygone meals were continually

rising up before him; not in anger or retribution, but as if grateful

for his former appreciation and seeking to resuscitate an endless

series of enjoyment, at once shadowy and sensual. A tender-loin of

beef, a hind-quarter of veal, a spare-rib of pork, a particular

chicken, or a remarkably praiseworthy turkey, which had perhaps

adorned his board in the days of the elder Adams, would be remembered;

while all the subsequent experience of our race, and all the events

that brightened or darkened his individual career, had gone over him

with as little permanent effect as the passing breeze. The chief

tragic event of the old man’s life, so far as I could judge, was his

mishap with a certain goose which lived and died some twenty or forty

years ago; a goose of most promising figure, but which, at table,

proved so inveterately tough that the carving-knife would make no

impression on its carcass, and it could only be divided with an axe

and handsaw.

But it is time to quit this sketch; on which, however, I should be

glad to dwell at considerably more length because, of all men whom I

have ever known, this individual was fittest to be a Custom-House

officer. Most persons, owing to causes which I may not have space to

hint at, suffer moral detriment from this peculiar mode of life. The

old Inspector was incapable of it, and, were he to continue in office

to the end of time, would be just as good as he was then, and sit down

to dinner with just as good an appetite.

There is one likeness, without which my gallery of Custom-House

portraits would be strangely incomplete; but which my comparatively

few opportunities for observation enable me to sketch only in the

merest outline. It is that of the Collector, our gallant old General,

who, after his brilliant military service, subsequently to which he

had ruled over a wild Western territory, had come hither, twenty years

before, to spend the decline of his varied and honorable life. The

brave soldier had already numbered, nearly or quite, his threescore