took our way towards the east whence I knew Jonathan was coming. We did

not go fast, though the way was steeply downhill, for we had to take

heavy rugs and wraps with us; we dared not face the possibility of being

left without warmth in the cold and the snow. We had to take some of our

provisions, too, for we were in a perfect desolation, and, so far as we

could see through the snowfall, there was not even the sign of

habitation. When we had gone about a mile, I was tired with the heavy

walking and sat down to rest. Then we looked back and saw where the

clear line of Dracula’s castle cut the sky; for we were so deep under

the hill whereon it was set that the angle of perspective of the

Carpathian mountains was far below it. We saw it in all its grandeur,

perched a thousand feet on the summit of a sheer precipice, and with

seemingly a great gap between it and the steep of the adjacent mountain

on any side. There was something wild and uncanny about the place. We

could hear the distant howling of wolves. They were far off, but the

sound, even though coming muffled through the deadening snowfall, was

full of terror. I knew from the way Dr. Van Helsing was searching about

that he was trying to seek some strategic point, where we would be less

exposed in case of attack. The rough roadway still led downwards; we

could trace it through the drifted snow.

In a little while the Professor signalled to me, so I got up and joined

him. He had found a wonderful spot, a sort of natural hollow in a rock,

with an entrance like a doorway between two boulders. He took me by the

hand and drew me in: “See!” he said, “here you will be in shelter; and

if the wolves do come I can meet them one by one.” He brought in our

furs, and made a snug nest for me, and got out some provisions and

forced them upon me. But I could not eat; to even try to do so was

repulsive to me, and, much as I would have liked to please him, I could

not bring myself to the attempt. He looked very sad, but did not

reproach me. Taking his field-glasses from the case, he stood on the top

of the rock, and began to search the horizon. Suddenly he called out:--

“Look! Madam Mina, look! look!” I sprang up and stood beside him on the

rock; he handed me his glasses and pointed. The snow was now falling

more heavily, and swirled about fiercely, for a high wind was beginning

to blow. However, there were times when there were pauses between the

snow flurries and I could see a long way round. From the height where we

were it was possible to see a great distance; and far off, beyond the

white waste of snow, I could see the river lying like a black ribbon in

kinks and curls as it wound its way. Straight in front of us and not far

off--in fact, so near that I wondered we had not noticed before--came a

group of mounted men hurrying along. In the midst of them was a cart, a

long leiter-wagon which swept from side to side, like a dog’s tail

wagging, with each stern inequality of the road. Outlined against the

snow as they were, I could see from the men’s clothes that they were

peasants or gypsies of some kind.

On the cart was a great square chest. My heart leaped as I saw it, for I

felt that the end was coming. The evening was now drawing close, and

well I knew that at sunset the Thing, which was till then imprisoned

there, would take new freedom and could in any of many forms elude all

pursuit. In fear I turned to the Professor; to my consternation,

however, he was not there. An instant later, I saw him below me. Round

the rock he had drawn a circle, such as we had found shelter in last

night. When he had completed it he stood beside me again, saying:--

“At least you shall be safe here from _him_!” He took the glasses from

me, and at the next lull of the snow swept the whole space below us.

“See,” he said, “they come quickly; they are flogging the horses, and

galloping as hard as they can.” He paused and went on in a hollow

voice:--

“They are racing for the sunset. We may be too late. God’s will be

done!” Down came another blinding rush of driving snow, and the whole

landscape was blotted out. It soon passed, however, and once more his

glasses were fixed on the plain. Then came a sudden cry:--