the mirror! The whole room behind me was displayed; but there was no

sign of a man in it, except myself. This was startling, and, coming on

the top of so many strange things, was beginning to increase that vague

feeling of uneasiness which I always have when the Count is near; but at

the instant I saw that the cut had bled a little, and the blood was

trickling over my chin. I laid down the razor, turning as I did so half

round to look for some sticking plaster. When the Count saw my face, his

eyes blazed with a sort of demoniac fury, and he suddenly made a grab at

my throat. I drew away, and his hand touched the string of beads which

held the crucifix. It made an instant change in him, for the fury passed

so quickly that I could hardly believe that it was ever there.

“Take care,” he said, “take care how you cut yourself. It is more

dangerous than you think in this country.” Then seizing the shaving

glass, he went on: “And this is the wretched thing that has done the

mischief. It is a foul bauble of man’s vanity. Away with it!” and

opening the heavy window with one wrench of his terrible hand, he flung

out the glass, which was shattered into a thousand pieces on the stones

of the courtyard far below. Then he withdrew without a word. It is very

annoying, for I do not see how I am to shave, unless in my watch-case or

the bottom of the shaving-pot, which is fortunately of metal.

When I went into the dining-room, breakfast was prepared; but I could

not find the Count anywhere. So I breakfasted alone. It is strange that

as yet I have not seen the Count eat or drink. He must be a very

peculiar man! After breakfast I did a little exploring in the castle. I

went out on the stairs, and found a room looking towards the South. The

view was magnificent, and from where I stood there was every opportunity

of seeing it. The castle is on the very edge of a terrible precipice. A

stone falling from the window would fall a thousand feet without

touching anything! As far as the eye can reach is a sea of green tree

tops, with occasionally a deep rift where there is a chasm. Here and

there are silver threads where the rivers wind in deep gorges through

the forests.

But I am not in heart to describe beauty, for when I had seen the view I

explored further; doors, doors, doors everywhere, and all locked and

bolted. In no place save from the windows in the castle walls is there

an available exit.

The castle is a veritable prison, and I am a prisoner!

CHAPTER III

JONATHAN HARKER’S JOURNAL--_continued_

When I found that I was a prisoner a sort of wild feeling came over me.

I rushed up and down the stairs, trying every door and peering out of

every window I could find; but after a little the conviction of my

helplessness overpowered all other feelings. When I look back after a

few hours I think I must have been mad for the time, for I behaved much

as a rat does in a trap. When, however, the conviction had come to me

that I was helpless I sat down quietly--as quietly as I have ever done

anything in my life--and began to think over what was best to be done. I

am thinking still, and as yet have come to no definite conclusion. Of

one thing only am I certain; that it is no use making my ideas known to

the Count. He knows well that I am imprisoned; and as he has done it

himself, and has doubtless his own motives for it, he would only deceive

me if I trusted him fully with the facts. So far as I can see, my only

plan will be to keep my knowledge and my fears to myself, and my eyes

open. I am, I know, either being deceived, like a baby, by my own fears,

or else I am in desperate straits; and if the latter be so, I need, and

shall need, all my brains to get through.

I had hardly come to this conclusion when I heard the great door below

shut, and knew that the Count had returned. He did not come at once into

the library, so I went cautiously to my own room and found him making

the bed. This was odd, but only confirmed what I had all along

thought--that there were no servants in the house. When later I saw him

through the chink of the hinges of the door laying the table in the

dining-room, I was assured of it; for if he does himself all these

menial offices, surely it is proof that there is no one else to do them.

This gave me a fright, for if there is no one else in the castle, it

must have been the Count himself who was the driver of the coach that