Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than

ever as he expressed them.

“But what,” said she, after a pause, “can have been his motive? what can

have induced him to behave so cruelly?”

“A thorough, determined dislike of me--a dislike which I cannot but

attribute in some measure to jealousy. Had the late Mr. Darcy liked me

less, his son might have borne with me better; but his father’s uncommon

attachment to me irritated him, I believe, very early in life. He had

not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood--the sort

of preference which was often given me.”

“I had not thought Mr. Darcy so bad as this--though I have never liked

him, I had not thought so very ill of him--I had supposed him to be

despising his fellow-creatures in general, but did not suspect him of

descending to such malicious revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity as

this!”

After a few minutes’ reflection, however, she continued, “I _do_

remember his boasting one day, at Netherfield, of the implacability of

his resentments, of his having an unforgiving temper. His disposition

must be dreadful.”

“I will not trust myself on the subject,” replied Wickham; “_I_ can

hardly be just to him.”

Elizabeth was again deep in thought, and after a time exclaimed, “To

treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his

father!” She could have added, “A young man, too, like _you_, whose very

countenance may vouch for your being amiable.” But she contented herself

with--“And one, too, who had probably been his own companion from

childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the closest

manner.”

“We were born in the same parish, within the same park; the greatest

part of our youth was passed together: inmates of the same house,

sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care. _My_

father began life in the profession which your uncle, Mr. Philips,

appears to do so much credit to; but he gave up everything to be of use

to the late Mr. Darcy, and devoted all his time to the care of the

Pemberley property. He was most highly esteemed by Mr. Darcy, a most

intimate, confidential friend. Mr. Darcy often acknowledged himself to

be under the greatest obligations to my father’s active superintendence;

and when, immediately before my father’s death, Mr. Darcy gave him a

voluntary promise of providing for me, I am convinced that he felt it

to be as much a debt of gratitude to _him_ as of affection to myself.”

“How strange!” cried Elizabeth. “How abominable! I wonder that the very

pride of this Mr. Darcy has not made him just to you. If from no better

motive, that he should not have been too proud to be dishonest,--for

dishonesty I must call it.”

“It _is_ wonderful,” replied Wickham; “for almost all his actions may be

traced to pride; and pride has often been his best friend. It has

connected him nearer with virtue than any other feeling. But we are none

of us consistent; and in his behaviour to me there were stronger

impulses even than pride.”

“Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?”

“Yes; it has often led him to be liberal and generous; to give his money

freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants, and relieve the

poor. Family pride, and _filial_ pride, for he is very proud of what his

father was, have done this. Not to appear to disgrace his family, to

degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the

Pemberley House, is a powerful motive. He has also _brotherly_ pride,

which, with _some_ brotherly affection, makes him a very kind and

careful guardian of his sister; and you will hear him generally cried up

as the most attentive and best of brothers.”

“What sort of a girl is Miss Darcy?”

He shook his head. “I wish I could call her amiable. It gives me pain to

speak ill of a Darcy; but she is too much like her brother,--very, very

proud. As a child, she was affectionate and pleasing, and extremely fond

of me; and I have devoted hours and hours to her amusement. But she is

nothing to me now. She is a handsome girl, about fifteen or sixteen,

and, I understand, highly accomplished. Since her father’s death her

home has been London, where a lady lives with her, and superintends her

education.”

After many pauses and many trials of other subjects, Elizabeth could not

help reverting once more to the first, and saying,--

“I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. Bingley. How can Mr. Bingley,

who seems good-humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly amiable,

be in friendship with such a man? How can they suit each other? Do you

know Mr. Bingley?”

“Not at all.”