since you went away. Have you seen any pleasant men? Have you had any

flirting? I was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband

before you came back. Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare.

She is almost three-and-twenty! Lord! how ashamed I should be of not

being married before three-and-twenty! My aunt Philips wants you so to

get husbands you can’t think. She says Lizzy had better have taken Mr.

Collins; but _I_ do not think there would have been any fun in it. Lord!

how I should like to be married before any of you! and then I would

_chaperon_ you about to all the balls. Dear me! we had such a good piece

of fun the other day at Colonel Forster’s! Kitty and me were to spend

the day there, and Mrs. Forster promised to have a little dance in the

evening; (by-the-bye, Mrs. Forster and me are _such_ friends!) and so

she asked the two Harringtons to come: but Harriet was ill, and so Pen

was forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did? We

dressed up Chamberlayne in woman’s clothes, on purpose to pass for a

lady,--only think what fun! Not a soul knew of it, but Colonel and Mrs.

Forster, and Kitty and me, except my aunt, for we were forced to borrow

one of her gowns; and you cannot imagine how well he looked! When Denny,

and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or three more of the men came in, they

did not know him in the least. Lord! how I laughed! and so did Mrs.

Forster. I thought I should have died. And _that_ made the men suspect

something, and then they soon found out what was the matter.”

With such kind of histories of their parties and good jokes did Lydia,

assisted by Kitty’s hints and additions, endeavour to amuse her

companions all the way to Longbourn. Elizabeth listened as little as she

could, but there was no escaping the frequent mention of Wickham’s name.

Their reception at home was most kind. Mrs. Bennet rejoiced to see Jane

in undiminished beauty; and more than once during dinner did Mr. Bennet

say voluntarily to Elizabeth,----

“I am glad you are come back, Lizzy.”

Their party in the dining-room was large, for almost all the Lucases

came to meet Maria and hear the news; and various were the subjects

which occupied them: Lady Lucas was inquiring of Maria, across the

table, after the welfare and poultry of her eldest daughter; Mrs. Bennet

was doubly engaged, on one hand collecting an account of the present

fashions from Jane, who sat some way below her, and on the other,

retailing them all to the younger Miss Lucases; and Lydia, in a voice

rather louder than any other person’s, was enumerating the various

pleasures of the morning to anybody who would hear her.

“Oh, Mary,” said she, “I wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun!

as we went along Kitty and me drew up all the blinds, and pretended

there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all the way, if

Kitty had not been sick; and when we got to the George, I do think we

behaved very handsomely, for we treated the other three with the nicest

cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we would have

treated you too. And then when we came away it was such fun! I thought

we never should have got into the coach. I was ready to die of laughter.

And then we were so merry all the way home! we talked and laughed so

loud, that anybody might have heard us ten miles off!”

To this, Mary very gravely replied, “Far be it from me, my dear sister,

to depreciate such pleasures. They would doubtless be congenial with the

generality of female minds. But I confess they would have no charms for

_me_. I should infinitely prefer a book.”

But of this answer Lydia heard not a word. She seldom listened to

anybody for more than half a minute, and never attended to Mary at all.

In the afternoon Lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to

Meryton, and see how everybody went on; but Elizabeth steadily opposed

the scheme. It should not be said, that the Miss Bennets could not be at

home half a day before they were in pursuit of the officers. There was

another reason, too, for her opposition. She dreaded seeing Wickham

again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible. The comfort to

_her_, of the regiment’s approaching removal, was indeed beyond