There was a singular circumstance that characterized Mr. Dimmesdale’s

psychological state, at this moment. All the time that he gazed upward

to the zenith, he was, nevertheless, perfectly aware that little Pearl

was pointing her finger towards old Roger Chillingworth, who stood at

no great distance from the scaffold. The minister appeared to see him,

with the same glance that discerned the miraculous letter. To his

features, as to all other objects, the meteoric light imparted a new

expression; or it might well be that the physician was not careful

then, as at all other times, to hide the malevolence with which he

looked upon his victim. Certainly, if the meteor kindled up the sky,

and disclosed the earth, with an awfulness that admonished Hester

Prynne and the clergyman of the day of judgment, then might Roger

Chillingworth have passed with them for the arch-fiend, standing there

with a smile and scowl, to claim his own. So vivid was the expression,

or so intense the minister’s perception of it, that it seemed still to

remain painted on the darkness, after the meteor had vanished, with an

effect as if the street and all things else were at once annihilated.

“Who is that man, Hester?” gasped Mr. Dimmesdale, overcome with

terror. “I shiver at him! Dost thou know the man? I hate him, Hester!”

She remembered her oath, and was silent.

“I tell thee, my soul shivers at him!” muttered the minister again.

“Who is he? Who is he? Canst thou do nothing for me? I have a nameless

horror of the man!”

“Minister,” said little Pearl, “I can tell thee who he is!”

“Quickly, then, child!” said the minister, bending his ear close to

her lips. “Quickly!—and as low as thou canst whisper.”

Pearl mumbled something into his ear, that sounded, indeed, like human

language, but was only such gibberish as children may be heard amusing

themselves with, by the hour together. At all events, if it involved

any secret information in regard to old Roger Chillingworth, it was in

a tongue unknown to the erudite clergyman, and did but increase the

bewilderment of his mind. The elvish child then laughed aloud.

“Dost thou mock me now?” said the minister.

“Thou wast not bold!—thou wast not true!”—answered the child. “Thou

wouldst not promise to take my hand, and mother’s hand, to-morrow

noontide!”

“Worthy Sir,” answered the physician, who had now advanced to the foot

of the platform. “Pious Master Dimmesdale, can this be you? Well,

well, indeed! We men of study, whose heads are in our books, have need

to be straitly looked after! We dream in our waking moments, and walk

in our sleep. Come, good Sir, and my dear friend, I pray you, let me

lead you home!”

“How knewest thou that I was here?” asked the minister, fearfully.

“Verily, and in good faith,” answered Roger Chillingworth, “I knew

nothing of the matter. I had spent the better part of the night at the

bedside of the worshipful Governor Winthrop, doing what my poor skill

might to give him ease. He going home to a better world, I, likewise,

was on my way homeward, when this strange light shone out. Come with

me, I beseech you, Reverend Sir; else you will be poorly able to do

Sabbath duty to-morrow. Aha! see now, how they trouble the

brain,—these books!—these books! You should study less, good Sir,

and take a little pastime; or these night-whimseys will grow upon

you.”

“I will go home with you,” said Mr. Dimmesdale.

With a chill despondency, like one awaking, all nerveless, from an

ugly dream, he yielded himself to the physician, and was led away.

The next day, however, being the Sabbath, he preached a discourse

which was held to be the richest and most powerful, and the most

replete with heavenly influences, that had ever proceeded from his

lips. Souls, it is said more souls than one, were brought to the truth

by the efficacy of that sermon, and vowed within themselves to cherish

a holy gratitude towards Mr. Dimmesdale throughout the long hereafter.

But, as he came down the pulpit steps, the gray-bearded sexton met

him, holding up a black glove, which the minister recognized as his

own.

“It was found,” said the sexton, “this morning, on the scaffold where

evil-doers are set up to public shame. Satan dropped it there, I take

it, intending a scurrilous jest against your reverence. But, indeed,

he was blind and foolish, as he ever and always is. A pure hand needs