said to me even more sweetly and softly than her wont:--

“I was uneasy about you, darling, and came in to see that you were all

right.”

I feared she might catch cold sitting there, and asked her to come in

and sleep with me, so she came into bed, and lay down beside me; she did

not take off her dressing gown, for she said she would only stay a while

and then go back to her own bed. As she lay there in my arms, and I in

hers, the flapping and buffeting came to the window again. She was

startled and a little frightened, and cried out: “What is that?” I tried

to pacify her, and at last succeeded, and she lay quiet; but I could

hear her poor dear heart still beating terribly. After a while there was

the low howl again out in the shrubbery, and shortly after there was a

crash at the window, and a lot of broken glass was hurled on the floor.

The window blind blew back with the wind that rushed in, and in the

aperture of the broken panes there was the head of a great, gaunt grey

wolf. Mother cried out in a fright, and struggled up into a sitting

posture, and clutched wildly at anything that would help her. Amongst

other things, she clutched the wreath of flowers that Dr. Van Helsing

insisted on my wearing round my neck, and tore it away from me. For a

second or two she sat up, pointing at the wolf, and there was a strange

and horrible gurgling in her throat; then she fell over--as if struck

with lightning, and her head hit my forehead and made me dizzy for a

moment or two. The room and all round seemed to spin round. I kept my

eyes fixed on the window, but the wolf drew his head back, and a whole

myriad of little specks seemed to come blowing in through the broken

window, and wheeling and circling round like the pillar of dust that

travellers describe when there is a simoon in the desert. I tried to

stir, but there was some spell upon me, and dear mother’s poor body,

which seemed to grow cold already--for her dear heart had ceased to

beat--weighed me down; and I remembered no more for a while.

The time did not seem long, but very, very awful, till I recovered

consciousness again. Somewhere near, a passing bell was tolling; the

dogs all round the neighbourhood were howling; and in our shrubbery,

seemingly just outside, a nightingale was singing. I was dazed and

stupid with pain and terror and weakness, but the sound of the

nightingale seemed like the voice of my dead mother come back to comfort

me. The sounds seemed to have awakened the maids, too, for I could hear

their bare feet pattering outside my door. I called to them, and they

came in, and when they saw what had happened, and what it was that lay

over me on the bed, they screamed out. The wind rushed in through the

broken window, and the door slammed to. They lifted off the body of my

dear mother, and laid her, covered up with a sheet, on the bed after I

had got up. They were all so frightened and nervous that I directed them

to go to the dining-room and have each a glass of wine. The door flew

open for an instant and closed again. The maids shrieked, and then went

in a body to the dining-room; and I laid what flowers I had on my dear

mother’s breast. When they were there I remembered what Dr. Van Helsing

had told me, but I didn’t like to remove them, and, besides, I would

have some of the servants to sit up with me now. I was surprised that

the maids did not come back. I called them, but got no answer, so I went

to the dining-room to look for them.

My heart sank when I saw what had happened. They all four lay helpless

on the floor, breathing heavily. The decanter of sherry was on the table

half full, but there was a queer, acrid smell about. I was suspicious,

and examined the decanter. It smelt of laudanum, and looking on the

sideboard, I found that the bottle which mother’s doctor uses for

her--oh! did use--was empty. What am I to do? what am I to do? I am back

in the room with mother. I cannot leave her, and I am alone, save for

the sleeping servants, whom some one has drugged. Alone with the dead! I

dare not go out, for I can hear the low howl of the wolf through the

broken window.

The air seems full of specks, floating and circling in the draught from

the window, and the lights burn blue and dim. What am I to do? God

shield me from harm this night! I shall hide this paper in my breast,