"Why not?" asked Tom, quickly.

"Because he's gone."

"Gone! Bower gone?"

"Yes," answered Jackson. "I saw him running out of the experiment shop

as we raced along to help you. I didn't think, at the time, that he was

doing more than go for aid, perhaps. But I see the game now."

"Oh, you mean--him?" and Tom pointed to the dripping figure.

"Yes," said Jackson in a low voice, as Koku went on ahead with his

prisoner. "If, as you say, this man was in league with Bower, the

latter has smelled a rat and skipped. He has run away, and I only hope

he hasn't done any damage or got hold of any of your plans."

"We'll soon know about that," said Tom. "I wonder who is at the bottom

of this?"

"Maybe those men you wouldn't work for," suggested the machinist.

"You mean Gale and Ware of the Universal Flying Machine Company?"

"Yes."

"Oh, I don't believe they'd stoop to any such measures as this--sending

spies around," replied Tom. "But I can't be too careful. We'll

investigate."

The first result of the investigation was to disclose the fact that

Bower was gone. He had taken his few possessions and left the Swift

plant while Tom was racing after the stranger. A hasty examination of

the safe did not reveal anything missing, as Tom's plans and papers

were intact. But they showed evidences of having been looked over, for

they were out of the regular order in which the young inventor kept

them.

"I begin to see it," said Tom, musingly. "Bower must have managed to

open the safe while I was gone, and he must have made a hasty copy of

some of the drawings of the silent motor, and passed them out of the

window to this gold-tooth man, who tried to make off with them. Did you

find anything on him?" he asked, as one of the men who had been

instructed to search the stranger came into the office just then.

"Not a thing, Mr. Swift! Not a thing!" was the answer. "We took off

every bit of his clothes and wrapped him in a blanket. He's in the

engine room getting dry now. But there isn't a thing in any of his

pockets."

"But I saw him stuffing some papers in as he ran away from me," said

Tom. "We must be sure about this. And don't let the fellow get away

until I question him."

"Oh, he's safe enough," answered the man. "Koku is guarding him. He

won't get away."

"Then I'll have a look at his clothes," decided Tom. "He may have a

secret pocket."

But nothing like this was disclosed, and the most careful search did

not reveal anything incriminating in the man's garments.

"He might have thrown away any papers Bower gave him," said Tom. "Maybe

they're at the bottom of the mud hole! If they're there they're safe

enough. But have a search made of the ground where this man ran."

This was done, but without result. Some of the workmen even dragged the

mud hole without finding anything. Then Tom and his father had a talk

with the stranger, who refused to give his name. The man was sullen and

angry. He talked loudly about his innocence and of "having the law on"

Tom for having tripped him into the mud.

"All right, if you want to make a complaint, go ahead," said the young

inventor. "I'll make one against you for trespass. Why did you come on

my grounds?"

"I was going to ask for work. I'm a good machinist and I wanted a job."

"How did you get in? Who admitted you at the gate?"

"I--I jest walked in," said the man, but Tom knew this could not be

true, as no strangers were admitted without a permit and none had been