expression had been calm, meditative, scholar-like. Now, there was

something ugly and evil in his face, which they had not previously

noticed, and which grew still the more obvious to sight, the oftener

they looked upon him. According to the vulgar idea, the fire in his

laboratory had been brought from the lower regions, and was fed with

infernal fuel; and so, as might be expected, his visage was getting

sooty with the smoke.

To sum up the matter, it grew to be a widely diffused opinion, that

the Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale, like many other personages of especial

sanctity, in all ages of the Christian world, was haunted either by

Satan himself, or Satan’s emissary, in the guise of old Roger

Chillingworth. This diabolical agent had the Divine permission, for a

season, to burrow into the clergyman’s intimacy, and plot against his

soul. No sensible man, it was confessed, could doubt on which side the

victory would turn. The people looked, with an unshaken hope, to see

the minister come forth out of the conflict, transfigured with the

glory which he would unquestionably win. Meanwhile, nevertheless, it

was sad to think of the perchance mortal agony through which he must

struggle towards his triumph.

Alas! to judge from the gloom and terror in the depths of the poor

minister’s eyes, the battle was a sore one and the victory anything

but secure.

[Illustration]

 [Illustration]

 X.

 THE LEECH AND HIS PATIENT.

Old Roger Chillingworth, throughout life, had been calm in

temperament, kindly, though not of warm affections, but ever, and in

all his relations with the world, a pure and upright man. He had begun

an investigation, as he imagined, with the severe and equal integrity

of a judge, desirous only of truth, even as if the question involved

no more than the air-drawn lines and figures of a geometrical problem,

instead of human passions, and wrongs inflicted on himself. But, as he

proceeded, a terrible fascination, a kind of fierce, though still

calm, necessity, seized the old man within its gripe, and never set

him free again, until he had done all its bidding. He now dug into the

poor clergyman’s heart, like a miner searching for gold; or, rather,

like a sexton delving into a grave, possibly in quest of a jewel that

had been buried on the dead man’s bosom, but likely to find nothing

save mortality and corruption. Alas for his own soul, if these were

what he sought!

Sometimes, a light glimmered out of the physician’s eyes, burning blue

and ominous, like the reflection of a furnace, or, let us say, like

one of those gleams of ghastly fire that darted from Bunyan’s awful

doorway in the hillside, and quivered on the pilgrim’s face. The soil

where this dark miner was working had perchance shown indications that

encouraged him.

“This man,” said he, at one such moment, to himself, “pure as they

deem him,—all spiritual as he seems,—hath inherited a strong animal

nature from his father or his mother. Let us dig a little further in

the direction of this vein!”

Then, after long search into the minister’s dim interior, and turning

over many precious materials, in the shape of high aspirations for the

welfare of his race, warm love of souls, pure sentiments, natural

piety, strengthened by thought and study, and illuminated by

revelation,—all of which invaluable gold was perhaps no better than

rubbish to the seeker,—he would turn back, discouraged, and begin his

quest towards another point. He groped along as stealthily, with as

cautious a tread, and as wary an outlook, as a thief entering a

chamber where a man lies only half asleep,—or, it may be, broad

awake,—with purpose to steal the very treasure which this man guards

as the apple of his eye. In spite of his premeditated carefulness, the

floor would now and then creak; his garments would rustle; the shadow

of his presence, in a forbidden proximity, would be thrown across his

victim. In other words, Mr. Dimmesdale, whose sensibility of nerve

often produced the effect of spiritual intuition, would become vaguely

aware that something inimical to his peace had thrust itself into

relation with him. But old Roger Chillingworth, too, had perceptions

that were almost intuitive; and when the minister threw his startled

eyes towards him, there the physician sat; his kind, watchful,

sympathizing, but never intrusive friend.

Yet Mr. Dimmesdale would perhaps have seen this individual’s character

more perfectly, if a certain morbidness, to which, sick hearts are

liable, had not rendered him suspicious of all mankind. Trusting no

man as his friend, he could not recognize his enemy when the latter

actually appeared. He therefore still kept up a familiar intercourse

with him, daily receiving the old physician in his study; or visiting

the laboratory, and, for recreation’s sake, watching the processes by

which weeds were converted into drugs of potency.

One day, leaning his forehead on his hand, and his elbow on the sill