Turkey-land. If it be so, then was he no common man; for in that time,

and for centuries after, he was spoken of as the cleverest and the most

cunning, as well as the bravest of the sons of the ‘land beyond the

forest.’ That mighty brain and that iron resolution went with him to his

grave, and are even now arrayed against us. The Draculas were, says

Arminius, a great and noble race, though now and again were scions who

were held by their coevals to have had dealings with the Evil One. They

learned his secrets in the Scholomance, amongst the mountains over Lake

Hermanstadt, where the devil claims the tenth scholar as his due. In the

records are such words as ‘stregoica’--witch, ‘ordog,’ and

‘pokol’--Satan and hell; and in one manuscript this very Dracula is

spoken of as ‘wampyr,’ which we all understand too well. There have been

from the loins of this very one great men and good women, and their

graves make sacred the earth where alone this foulness can dwell. For it

is not the least of its terrors that this evil thing is rooted deep in

all good; in soil barren of holy memories it cannot rest.”

Whilst they were talking Mr. Morris was looking steadily at the window,

and he now got up quietly, and went out of the room. There was a little

pause, and then the Professor went on:--

“And now we must settle what we do. We have here much data, and we must

proceed to lay out our campaign. We know from the inquiry of Jonathan

that from the castle to Whitby came fifty boxes of earth, all of which

were delivered at Carfax; we also know that at least some of these boxes

have been removed. It seems to me, that our first step should be to

ascertain whether all the rest remain in the house beyond that wall

where we look to-day; or whether any more have been removed. If the

latter, we must trace----”

Here we were interrupted in a very startling way. Outside the house came

the sound of a pistol-shot; the glass of the window was shattered with a

bullet, which, ricochetting from the top of the embrasure, struck the

far wall of the room. I am afraid I am at heart a coward, for I shrieked

out. The men all jumped to their feet; Lord Godalming flew over to the

window and threw up the sash. As he did so we heard Mr. Morris’s voice

without:--

“Sorry! I fear I have alarmed you. I shall come in and tell you about

it.” A minute later he came in and said:--

“It was an idiotic thing of me to do, and I ask your pardon, Mrs.

Harker, most sincerely; I fear I must have frightened you terribly. But

the fact is that whilst the Professor was talking there came a big bat

and sat on the window-sill. I have got such a horror of the damned

brutes from recent events that I cannot stand them, and I went out to

have a shot, as I have been doing of late of evenings, whenever I have

seen one. You used to laugh at me for it then, Art.”

“Did you hit it?” asked Dr. Van Helsing.

“I don’t know; I fancy not, for it flew away into the wood.” Without

saying any more he took his seat, and the Professor began to resume his

statement:--

“We must trace each of these boxes; and when we are ready, we must

either capture or kill this monster in his lair; or we must, so to

speak, sterilise the earth, so that no more he can seek safety in it.

Thus in the end we may find him in his form of man between the hours of

noon and sunset, and so engage with him when he is at his most weak.

“And now for you, Madam Mina, this night is the end until all be well.

You are too precious to us to have such risk. When we part to-night, you

no more must question. We shall tell you all in good time. We are men

and are able to bear; but you must be our star and our hope, and we

shall act all the more free that you are not in the danger, such as we

are.”

All the men, even Jonathan, seemed relieved; but it did not seem to me

good that they should brave danger and, perhaps, lessen their

safety--strength being the best safety--through care of me; but their

minds were made up, and, though it was a bitter pill for me to swallow,

I could say nothing, save to accept their chivalrous care of me.

Mr. Morris resumed the discussion:--

“As there is no time to lose, I vote we have a look at his house right

now. Time is everything with him; and swift action on our part may save

another victim.”

I own that my heart began to fail me when the time for action came so

close, but I did not say anything, for I had a greater fear that if I

appeared as a drag or a hindrance to their work, they might even leave

me out of their counsels altogether. They have now gone off to Carfax,

with means to get into the house.

Manlike, they had told me to go to bed and sleep; as if a woman can