yet one that the poor brutes we dominate know only too well. I felt as

a rabbit might feel returning to his burrow and suddenly confronted by

the work of a dozen busy navvies digging the foundations of a house. I

felt the first inkling of a thing that presently grew quite clear in my

mind, that oppressed me for many days, a sense of dethronement, a

persuasion that I was no longer a master, but an animal among the

animals, under the Martian heel. With us it would be as with them, to

lurk and watch, to run and hide; the fear and empire of man had passed

away.

But so soon as this strangeness had been realised it passed, and my

dominant motive became the hunger of my long and dismal fast. In the

direction away from the pit I saw, beyond a red-covered wall, a patch

of garden ground unburied. This gave me a hint, and I went knee-deep,

and sometimes neck-deep, in the red weed. The density of the weed gave

me a reassuring sense of hiding. The wall was some six feet high, and

when I attempted to clamber it I found I could not lift my feet to the

crest. So I went along by the side of it, and came to a corner and a

rockwork that enabled me to get to the top, and tumble into the garden

I coveted. Here I found some young onions, a couple of gladiolus bulbs,

and a quantity of immature carrots, all of which I secured, and,

scrambling over a ruined wall, went on my way through scarlet and

crimson trees towards Kew—it was like walking through an avenue of

gigantic blood drops—possessed with two ideas: to get more food, and to

limp, as soon and as far as my strength permitted, out of this accursed

unearthly region of the pit.

Some way farther, in a grassy place, was a group of mushrooms which

also I devoured, and then I came upon a brown sheet of flowing shallow

water, where meadows used to be. These fragments of nourishment served

only to whet my hunger. At first I was surprised at this flood in a

hot, dry summer, but afterwards I discovered that it was caused by the

tropical exuberance of the red weed. Directly this extraordinary growth

encountered water it straightway became gigantic and of unparalleled

fecundity. Its seeds were simply poured down into the water of the Wey

and Thames, and its swiftly growing and Titanic water fronds speedily

choked both those rivers.

At Putney, as I afterwards saw, the bridge was almost lost in a tangle

of this weed, and at Richmond, too, the Thames water poured in a broad

and shallow stream across the meadows of Hampton and Twickenham. As the

water spread the weed followed them, until the ruined villas of the

Thames valley were for a time lost in this red swamp, whose margin I

explored, and much of the desolation the Martians had caused was

concealed.

In the end the red weed succumbed almost as quickly as it had spread. A

cankering disease, due, it is believed, to the action of certain

bacteria, presently seized upon it. Now by the action of natural

selection, all terrestrial plants have acquired a resisting power

against bacterial diseases—they never succumb without a severe

struggle, but the red weed rotted like a thing already dead. The fronds

became bleached, and then shrivelled and brittle. They broke off at the

least touch, and the waters that had stimulated their early growth

carried their last vestiges out to sea.

My first act on coming to this water was, of course, to slake my

thirst. I drank a great deal of it and, moved by an impulse, gnawed

some fronds of red weed; but they were watery, and had a sickly,

metallic taste. I found the water was sufficiently shallow for me to

wade securely, although the red weed impeded my feet a little; but the

flood evidently got deeper towards the river, and I turned back to

Mortlake. I managed to make out the road by means of occasional ruins

of its villas and fences and lamps, and so presently I got out of this

spate and made my way to the hill going up towards Roehampton and came

out on Putney Common.

Here the scenery changed from the strange and unfamiliar to the

wreckage of the familiar: patches of ground exhibited the devastation

of a cyclone, and in a few score yards I would come upon perfectly

undisturbed spaces, houses with their blinds trimly drawn and doors

closed, as if they had been left for a day by the owners, or as if

their inhabitants slept within. The red weed was less abundant; the

tall trees along the lane were free from the red creeper. I hunted for

food among the trees, finding nothing, and I also raided a couple of

silent houses, but they had already been broken into and ransacked. I

rested for the remainder of the daylight in a shrubbery, being, in my

enfeebled condition, too fatigued to push on.

All this time I saw no human beings, and no signs of the Martians. I

encountered a couple of hungry-looking dogs, but both hurried