staff in his left hand, he laid his right upon the shoulder of a young

woman, whom he thus drew forward; until, on the threshold of the

prison-door, she repelled him, by an action marked with natural

dignity and force of character, and stepped into the open air, as if

by her own free will. She bore in her arms a child, a baby of some

three months old, who winked and turned aside its little face from the

too vivid light of day; because its existence, heretofore, had brought

it acquainted only with the gray twilight of a dungeon, or other

darksome apartment of the prison.

When the young woman—the mother of this child—stood fully revealed

before the crowd, it seemed to be her first impulse to clasp the

infant closely to her bosom; not so much by an impulse of motherly

affection, as that she might thereby conceal a certain token, which

was wrought or fastened into her dress. In a moment, however, wisely

judging that one token of her shame would but poorly serve to hide

another, she took the baby on her arm, and, with a burning blush, and

yet a haughty smile, and a glance that would not be abashed, looked

around at her towns-people and neighbors. On the breast of her gown,

in fine red cloth, surrounded with an elaborate embroidery and

fantastic flourishes of gold-thread, appeared the letter A. It was so

artistically done, and with so much fertility and gorgeous luxuriance

of fancy, that it had all the effect of a last and fitting decoration

to the apparel which she wore; and which was of a splendor in

accordance with the taste of the age, but greatly beyond what was

allowed by the sumptuary regulations of the colony.

The young woman was tall, with a figure of perfect elegance on a large

scale. She had dark and abundant hair, so glossy that it threw off the

sunshine with a gleam, and a face which, besides being beautiful from

regularity of feature and richness of complexion, had the

impressiveness belonging to a marked brow and deep black eyes. She was

lady-like, too, after the manner of the feminine gentility of those

days; characterized by a certain state and dignity, rather than by the

delicate, evanescent, and indescribable grace, which is now recognized

as its indication. And never had Hester Prynne appeared more

lady-like, in the antique interpretation of the term, than as she

issued from the prison. Those who had before known her, and had

expected to behold her dimmed and obscured by a disastrous cloud, were

astonished, and even startled, to perceive how her beauty shone out,

and made a halo of the misfortune and ignominy in which she was

enveloped. It may be true, that, to a sensitive observer, there was

something exquisitely painful in it. Her attire, which, indeed, she

had wrought for the occasion, in prison, and had modelled much after

her own fancy, seemed to express the attitude of her spirit, the

desperate recklessness of her mood, by its wild and picturesque

peculiarity. But the point which drew all eyes, and, as it were,

transfigured the wearer,—so that both men and women, who had been

familiarly acquainted with Hester Prynne, were now impressed as if

they beheld her for the first time,—was that SCARLET LETTER, so

fantastically embroidered and illuminated upon her bosom. It had the

effect of a spell, taking her out of the ordinary relations with

humanity, and enclosing her in a sphere by herself.

“She hath good skill at her needle, that’s certain,” remarked one of

her female spectators; “but did ever a woman, before this brazen

hussy, contrive such a way of showing it! Why, gossips, what is it but

to laugh in the faces of our godly magistrates, and make a pride out

of what they, worthy gentlemen, meant for a punishment?”

“It were well,” muttered the most iron-visaged of the old dames, “if

we stripped Madam Hester’s rich gown off her dainty shoulders; and as

for the red letter, which she hath stitched so curiously, I’ll bestow

a rag of mine own rheumatic flannel, to make a fitter one!”

“O, peace, neighbors, peace!” whispered their youngest companion; “do

not let her hear you! Not a stitch in that embroidered letter but she

has felt it in her heart.”

The grim beadle now made a gesture with his staff.

“Make way, good people, make way, in the King’s name!” cried he. “Open

a passage; and, I promise ye, Mistress Prynne shall be set where man,

woman, and child may have a fair sight of her brave apparel, from this

time till an hour past meridian. A blessing on the righteous Colony of

the Massachusetts, where iniquity is dragged out into the sunshine!

Come along, Madam Hester, and show your scarlet letter in the

market-place!”

A lane was forthwith opened through the crowd of spectators. Preceded

by the beadle, and attended by an irregular procession of

stern-browed men and unkindly visaged women, Hester Prynne set forth

towards the place appointed for her punishment. A crowd of eager and

curious school-boys, understanding little of the matter in hand,

except that it gave them a half-holiday, ran before her progress,

turning their heads continually to stare into her face, and at the

winking baby in her arms, and at the ignominious letter on her breast.

It was no great distance, in those days, from the prison-door to the