Herselfe poys'd with herselfe in either eye:

But in that Christall scales, let there be waid,

Your Ladies loue against some other Maid

That I will show you, shining at this Feast,

And she shew scant shell, well, that now shewes best

 Rom. Ile goe along, no such sight to be showne,

But to reioyce in splendor of mine owne.

Enter Capulets Wife and Nurse.

 Wife. Nurse wher's my daughter? call her forth to me

 Nurse. Now by my Maidenhead, at twelue yeare old

I bad her come, what Lamb: what Ladi-bird, God forbid,

Where's this Girle? what Iuliet?

Enter Iuliet

 Iuliet. How now, who calls?

 Nur. Your Mother

 Iuliet. Madam I am heere, what is your will?

 Wife. This is the matter: Nurse giue me leaue awhile, we

must talke in secret. Nurse come backe againe, I haue remembred

me, thou'se heare our counsell. Thou knowest

my daughter's of a prety age

 Nurse. Faith I can tell her age vnto an houre

 Wife. Shee's not fourteene

 Nurse. Ile lay fourteene of my teeth,

And yet to my teene be it spoken,

I haue but foure, shee's not fourteene.

How long is it now to Lammas tide?

 Wife. A fortnight and odde dayes

 Nurse. Euen or odde, of all daies in the yeare come

Lammas Eue at night shall she be fourteene. Susan & she,

God rest all Christian soules, were of an age. Well Susan

is with God, she was too good for me. But as I said, on Lamas

Eue at night shall she be fourteene, that shall she marie,

I remember it well. 'Tis since the Earth-quake now

eleuen yeares, and she was wean'd I neuer shall forget it,

of all the daies of the yeare, vpon that day: for I had then

laid Worme-wood to my Dug sitting in the Sunne vnder

the Douehouse wall, my Lord and you were then at

Mantua, nay I doe beare a braine. But as I said, when it

did tast the Worme-wood on the nipple of my Dugge,

and felt it bitter, pretty foole, to see it teachie, and fall out

with the Dugge, Shake quoth the Doue-house, 'twas no

neede I trow to bid mee trudge, and since that time it is

a eleuen yeares, for then she could stand alone, nay bi'th'

roode she could haue runne, & wadled all about: for euen

the day before she broke her brow, & then my Husband

God be with his soule, a was a merrie man, tooke vp the

Child, yea quoth hee, doest thou fall vpon thy face? thou

wilt fall backeward when thou hast more wit, wilt thou

not Iule? And by my holy-dam, the pretty wretch lefte

crying, & said I: to see now how a Iest shall come about.

I warrant, & I shall liue a thousand yeares, I neuer should

forget it: wilt thou not Iule quoth he? and pretty foole it

stinted, and said I

 Old La. Inough of this, I pray thee hold thy peace

 Nurse. Yes Madam, yet I cannot chuse but laugh, to

thinke it should leaue crying, & say I: and yet I warrant

it had vpon it brow, a bumpe as big as a young Cockrels

stone? A perilous knock, and it cryed bitterly. Yea quoth

my husband, fall'st vpon thy face, thou wilt fall backward

when thou commest to age: wilt thou not Iule? It

stinted: and said I

 Iule. And stint thou too, I pray thee Nurse, say I

 Nur. Peace I haue done: God marke thee too his grace

thou wast the prettiest Babe that ere I nurst, and I might

liue to see thee married once, I haue my wish

 Old La. Marry that marry is the very theame

I came to talke of, tell me daughter Iuliet,