where they shall find it when they come to lay me out. My dear mother

gone! It is time that I go too. Good-bye, dear Arthur, if I should not

survive this night. God keep you, dear, and God help me!

CHAPTER XII

DR. SEWARD’S DIARY

_18 September._--I drove at once to Hillingham and arrived early.

Keeping my cab at the gate, I went up the avenue alone. I knocked gently

and rang as quietly as possible, for I feared to disturb Lucy or her

mother, and hoped to only bring a servant to the door. After a while,

finding no response, I knocked and rang again; still no answer. I cursed

the laziness of the servants that they should lie abed at such an

hour--for it was now ten o’clock--and so rang and knocked again, but

more impatiently, but still without response. Hitherto I had blamed only

the servants, but now a terrible fear began to assail me. Was this

desolation but another link in the chain of doom which seemed drawing

tight around us? Was it indeed a house of death to which I had come, too

late? I knew that minutes, even seconds of delay, might mean hours of

danger to Lucy, if she had had again one of those frightful relapses;

and I went round the house to try if I could find by chance an entry

anywhere.

I could find no means of ingress. Every window and door was fastened and

locked, and I returned baffled to the porch. As I did so, I heard the

rapid pit-pat of a swiftly driven horse’s feet. They stopped at the

gate, and a few seconds later I met Van Helsing running up the avenue.

When he saw me, he gasped out:--

“Then it was you, and just arrived. How is she? Are we too late? Did you

not get my telegram?”

I answered as quickly and coherently as I could that I had only got his

telegram early in the morning, and had not lost a minute in coming here,

and that I could not make any one in the house hear me. He paused and

raised his hat as he said solemnly:--

“Then I fear we are too late. God’s will be done!” With his usual

recuperative energy, he went on: “Come. If there be no way open to get

in, we must make one. Time is all in all to us now.”

We went round to the back of the house, where there was a kitchen

window. The Professor took a small surgical saw from his case, and

handing it to me, pointed to the iron bars which guarded the window. I

attacked them at once and had very soon cut through three of them. Then

with a long, thin knife we pushed back the fastening of the sashes and

opened the window. I helped the Professor in, and followed him. There

was no one in the kitchen or in the servants’ rooms, which were close at

hand. We tried all the rooms as we went along, and in the dining-room,

dimly lit by rays of light through the shutters, found four

servant-women lying on the floor. There was no need to think them dead,

for their stertorous breathing and the acrid smell of laudanum in the

room left no doubt as to their condition. Van Helsing and I looked at

each other, and as we moved away he said: “We can attend to them later.”

Then we ascended to Lucy’s room. For an instant or two we paused at the

door to listen, but there was no sound that we could hear. With white

faces and trembling hands, we opened the door gently, and entered the

room.

How shall I describe what we saw? On the bed lay two women, Lucy and her

mother. The latter lay farthest in, and she was covered with a white

sheet, the edge of which had been blown back by the draught through the

broken window, showing the drawn, white face, with a look of terror

fixed upon it. By her side lay Lucy, with face white and still more

drawn. The flowers which had been round her neck we found upon her

mother’s bosom, and her throat was bare, showing the two little wounds

which we had noticed before, but looking horribly white and mangled.

Without a word the Professor bent over the bed, his head almost touching

poor Lucy’s breast; then he gave a quick turn of his head, as of one who

listens, and leaping to his feet, he cried out to me:--