So he got out of the fury of the panic, and, skirting the Edgware Road,

reached Edgware about seven, fasting and wearied, but well ahead of the

crowd. Along the road people were standing in the roadway, curious,

wondering. He was passed by a number of cyclists, some horsemen, and

two motor cars. A mile from Edgware the rim of the wheel broke, and the

machine became unridable. He left it by the roadside and trudged

through the village. There were shops half opened in the main street of

the place, and people crowded on the pavement and in the doorways and

windows, staring astonished at this extraordinary procession of

fugitives that was beginning. He succeeded in getting some food at an

inn.

For a time he remained in Edgware not knowing what next to do. The

flying people increased in number. Many of them, like my brother,

seemed inclined to loiter in the place. There was no fresh news of the

invaders from Mars.

At that time the road was crowded, but as yet far from congested. Most

of the fugitives at that hour were mounted on cycles, but there were

soon motor cars, hansom cabs, and carriages hurrying along, and the

dust hung in heavy clouds along the road to St. Albans.

It was perhaps a vague idea of making his way to Chelmsford, where some

friends of his lived, that at last induced my brother to strike into a

quiet lane running eastward. Presently he came upon a stile, and,

crossing it, followed a footpath northeastward. He passed near several

farmhouses and some little places whose names he did not learn. He saw

few fugitives until, in a grass lane towards High Barnet, he happened

upon two ladies who became his fellow travellers. He came upon them

just in time to save them.

He heard their screams, and, hurrying round the corner, saw a couple of

men struggling to drag them out of the little pony-chaise in which they

had been driving, while a third with difficulty held the frightened

pony’s head. One of the ladies, a short woman dressed in white, was

simply screaming; the other, a dark, slender figure, slashed at the man

who gripped her arm with a whip she held in her disengaged hand.

My brother immediately grasped the situation, shouted, and hurried

towards the struggle. One of the men desisted and turned towards him,

and my brother, realising from his antagonist’s face that a fight was

unavoidable, and being an expert boxer, went into him forthwith and

sent him down against the wheel of the chaise.

It was no time for pugilistic chivalry and my brother laid him quiet

with a kick, and gripped the collar of the man who pulled at the

slender lady’s arm. He heard the clatter of hoofs, the whip stung

across his face, a third antagonist struck him between the eyes, and

the man he held wrenched himself free and made off down the lane in the

direction from which he had come.

Partly stunned, he found himself facing the man who had held the

horse’s head, and became aware of the chaise receding from him down the

lane, swaying from side to side, and with the women in it looking back.

The man before him, a burly rough, tried to close, and he stopped him

with a blow in the face. Then, realising that he was deserted, he

dodged round and made off down the lane after the chaise, with the

sturdy man close behind him, and the fugitive, who had turned now,

following remotely.

Suddenly he stumbled and fell; his immediate pursuer went headlong, and

he rose to his feet to find himself with a couple of antagonists again.

He would have had little chance against them had not the slender lady

very pluckily pulled up and returned to his help. It seems she had had

a revolver all this time, but it had been under the seat when she and

her companion were attacked. She fired at six yards’ distance, narrowly

missing my brother. The less courageous of the robbers made off, and

his companion followed him, cursing his cowardice. They both stopped in

sight down the lane, where the third man lay insensible.

“Take this!” said the slender lady, and she gave my brother her

revolver.

“Go back to the chaise,” said my brother, wiping the blood from his

split lip.

She turned without a word—they were both panting—and they went back to

where the lady in white struggled to hold back the frightened pony.

The robbers had evidently had enough of it. When my brother looked

again they were retreating.

“I’ll sit here,” said my brother, “if I may”; and he got upon the empty

front seat. The lady looked over her shoulder.

“Give me the reins,” she said, and laid the whip along the pony’s side.

In another moment a bend in the road hid the three men from my

brother’s eyes.

So, quite unexpectedly, my brother found himself, panting, with a cut