white breast, Pearl was almost sure, had been hit by a pebble, and

fluttered away with a broken wing. But then the elf-child sighed, and

gave up her sport; because it grieved her to have done harm to a

little being that was as wild as the sea-breeze, or as wild as Pearl

herself.

Her final employment was to gather sea-weed, of various kinds, and

make herself a scarf, or mantle, and a head-dress, and thus assume the

aspect of a little mermaid. She inherited her mother’s gift for

devising drapery and costume. As the last touch to her mermaid’s garb,

Pearl took some eel-grass, and imitated, as best she could, on her own

bosom, the decoration with which she was so familiar on her mother’s.

A letter,—the letter A,—but freshly green, instead of scarlet! The

child bent her chin upon her breast, and contemplated this device with

strange interest; even as if the one only thing for which she had been

sent into the world was to make out its hidden import.

“I wonder if mother will ask me what it means?” thought Pearl.

Just then, she heard her mother’s voice, and flitting along as lightly

as one of the little sea-birds, appeared before Hester Prynne,

dancing, laughing, and pointing her finger to the ornament upon her

bosom.

“My little Pearl,” said Hester, after a moment’s silence, “the green

letter, and on thy childish bosom, has no purport. But dost thou know,

my child, what this letter means which thy mother is doomed to wear?”

“Yes, mother,” said the child. “It is the great letter A. Thou hast

taught me in the horn-book.”

Hester looked steadily into her little face; but, though there was

that singular expression which she had so often remarked in her black

eyes, she could not satisfy herself whether Pearl really attached any

meaning to the symbol. She felt a morbid desire to ascertain the

point.

“Dost thou know, child, wherefore thy mother wears this letter?”

“Truly do I!” answered Pearl, looking brightly into her mother’s face.

“It is for the same reason that the minister keeps his hand over his

heart!”

“And what reason is that?” asked Hester, half smiling at the absurd

incongruity of the child’s observation; but, on second thoughts,

turning pale. “What has the letter to do with any heart, save mine?”

“Nay, mother, I have told all I know,” said Pearl, more seriously than

she was wont to speak. “Ask yonder old man whom thou hast been talking

with! It may be he can tell. But in good earnest now, mother dear,

what does this scarlet letter mean?—and why dost thou wear it on thy

bosom?—and why does the minister keep his hand over his heart?”

She took her mother’s hand in both her own, and gazed into her eyes

with an earnestness that was seldom seen in her wild and capricious

character. The thought occurred to Hester, that the child might really

be seeking to approach her with childlike confidence, and doing what

she could, and as intelligently as she knew how, to establish a

meeting-point of sympathy. It showed Pearl in an unwonted aspect.

Heretofore, the mother, while loving her child with the intensity of a

sole affection, had schooled herself to hope for little other return

than the waywardness of an April breeze; which spends its time in airy

sport, and has its gusts of inexplicable passion, and is petulant in

its best of moods, and chills oftener than caresses you, when you take

it to your bosom; in requital of which misdemeanors, it will

sometimes, of its own vague purpose, kiss your cheek with a kind of

doubtful tenderness, and play gently with your hair, and then be gone

about its other idle business, leaving a dreamy pleasure at your

heart. And this, moreover, was a mother’s estimate of the child’s

disposition. Any other observer might have seen few but unamiable

traits, and have given them a far darker coloring. But now the idea

came strongly into Hester’s mind, that Pearl, with her remarkable

precocity and acuteness, might already have approached the age when

she could be made a friend, and intrusted with as much of her mother’s

sorrows as could be imparted, without irreverence either to the parent

or the child. In the little chaos of Pearl’s character there might be

seen emerging—and could have been, from the very first—the steadfast

principles of an unflinching courage,—an uncontrollable will,—a

sturdy pride, which might be disciplined into self-respect,—and a

bitter scorn of many things, which, when examined, might be found to

have the taint of falsehood in them. She possessed affections, too,

though hitherto acrid and disagreeable, as are the richest flavors of

unripe fruit. With all these sterling attributes, thought Hester, the

evil which she inherited from her mother must be great indeed, if a

noble woman do not grow out of this elfish child.

Pearl’s inevitable tendency to hover about the enigma of the scarlet

letter seemed an innate quality of her being. From the earliest epoch

of her conscious life, she had entered upon this as her appointed

mission. Hester had often fancied that Providence had a design of